I've got my hands on my first 2026
release and for me it's one of the most
exciting that we're gonna have all year.
This is the new Tour Edge Exotics
Exotics Max. This is a 10K MOI driver
and as you can see Tour Edge has
completely rebranded it itself. We've
had so many comments on the channel
about how ugly that old logo was.
They've had it for 40 years, but now
we've got something new. And this
driver, if it can pack the same
performance that we've seen out of the
Tour Edge Exotics line over the past few
years, coupled with the nice new
aesthetics and the price, which is
generally right from Tour Edge, we are
going to have a beast on our hands. An
absolute monster. Today, I'm going to
take it out on course. We're going to
put it through our battery of tests,
which include distance, forgiveness,
workability, aesthetics, and value. At
the end, we'll give it a score. But
first, let's take a closer look. Here's
your closer look at the Exotics Max.
This is part of a full line of new
drivers, including a low spin model and
a light model. So, they've got models
for everyone. This particular one, it's
got a nice elongated shape here. You've
got a carbon fiber crown, titanium face,
fairly deep, but pretty good there from
toe to heel as well. So, a lot of
hitting space here on this Max model. It
is a 10K model in case you were
wondering. So, you've got full
forgiveness available to you. And the
other thing that makes the Toredge line
over the last few years really forgiving
is what they call a pyramid face. And
what that is is variable thickness
throughout the course of this face.
There's different spots where it's
thicker, different spots where it's
thinner to maximize offc center
forgiveness. We'll see if we get that
out here on course. Now, this Max model
features an adjustable weight. So,
you've got a draw as well as a fade bias
that you can dial in. It's not like a
sliding weight. There's actually three
positions, but you've got some
workability options there. You've also
got plenty of adjustability here in the
shaft where you can adjust this up or
down a couple of degrees. You can adjust
the lie angle a little bit more flat or
a little bit more upright. While we're
down here by the hoszle, let's take a
look at this sticker, which a lot of
people are going to love. First of all,
these clubs are handbuilt in the USA.
Now, I don't think this is manufactured
this head necessarily in the USA, but at
least they're finished here in the USA.
But the big one is lifetime warranty.
And I've had a number of folks on this
channel comment that Tore Edge, more so
than any other manufacturer, really
honors that warranty, and they will send
you a club if you ever have a
manufacturer defect. I have yet to see
one personally, but I know it can
happen. Now, the shaft this is paired
with is a new one for me. This is called
the red black Ventus shaft. So, maybe
it's kind of in between. I don't know
too much about this shaft, but what I
can tell you is it's in the 50 gram
range. And this is stiff. This is not
going to be the top-of-the-line type of
Fuji Kora, but for a stock shaft, it's a
really nice offering. And it's going to
be paired with a Golf Pride Grip. I
happen to have it in medium. So, a nice
looking package, but results is what we
came to see. Let's go do that now. All
right. I've brought the GC Quad along
here for these tests. That way, we get
some accurate ball data, club data, and
then we've also got the Garmin G80,
which is going to tell us how far we hit
these down at a dress. really nice and
clean. Let's see what it feels like.
Now, that came off the club face pretty
low, but it's on a really good line.
Club head speed was 98.8, so almost 99.
Ball speed was 141, which is a really
good number for that club head speed.
The smash was 142. Angle of attack 8.1Â°.
We didn't quite get that peak height.
Estimated carry is 223 and the spin
1950. So, a little lower in terms of
spin, but again, didn't quite catch that
one where I wanted. And I say lower for
spin, I mean for me. Generally about
2200 is where I like to live. Let's see
what we do here on shot two. Take a
little bit different swing path here.
Oh, that launched nice and high. That
may carry through the fairway, actually.
We'll see. But I liked it. Club head
speed was 99.4. So I got it up there a
little bit. Ball speed was 140. The
smash was 141. But I did hit a little
high on the club face. Carry 247. Spin
1874. Let's hit one more. Somewhere
right in between those two would be
perfect. That would be center of the
club face. Maximum efficiency.
See if I can pull it off on swing three.
Again, I hit that a little lower on the
club face, but it's on a great line.
Seems to be a very forgiving club
because we haven't hit one in the middle
yet. That was a little heelside, a
little low. According to the GC Quad, my
swing speed was down there, 97.9, ball
speed 138, the smash 141, the estimated
carry 227, the spin 1844. I can't wait
to see what the spin looks like once I
hit in the middle. But first, let's find
out the results of our first test here
and see how far these flew. All right,
so we got two here in the fairway. One
that I actually hit so well, it blew
through the fairway on this dog leg
left. And this one went a pretty long
way. We didn't get any roll out of it
either because we're in the rough.
And because it's morning, but in terms
of distance, looks to be you're going to
get everything you possibly want out of
the Torge Max here. 265 is the number
for this one. Let's go check the other
two. Now, all three of these, none of
them were hitting the middle of the club
face. 235 is the number here, but we're
center of the fairway. And then if I
come up here just a little bit, 252 is
the number here. So, ample distance for
sure, especially on mits. If I can get
252 on a mishit and 265 on still a bit
of a mishit, I'm excited to see what's
going to happen once I hit this in the
middle of the club face. Hopefully, we
can find out here on the next test. All
right, on this one, I'm going to try to
get my swing speed up higher. I'd love
to be 102, 103, somewhere like that,
just to really get a taste of what this
thing can do for distance. I've got a
ball that's going to give us plenty of
distance here in the Condor. Volvvic,
our sponsor here in 2025. Thank you to
them. Here we go.
Definitely got the swing speed up. I
kind of came across it, so I pulled it a
bit. It's going to miss the fairway, but
I think it's gone a long way. Club speed
was 101, ball speed 145. That means the
smash is 143, estimated carry 250, and
our spin right around that same number,
1860. It's been very consistent. All
right, shot two here. And change the
club path again just a touch.
There we go. Wow,
really nice peak height. It was just
slightly heel side but close to the
center. Anyways, club head speed 102,
ball speed 144, smash 141. Estimated
carry that same number, 250. But now
we've got our spin better 2275. Better
for me. Everyone's a little different,
but I need to be about 2200 to get max
distance. And I did that there. I'm
really interested to seeing where that
one finished, but we're going to hit one
more here. Definitely getting the club
head speed up. We've got it up over the
right where I'd like to be. I just want
to catch one in the middle now. There we
go. That was middle of the club face.
Nice tight draw coming right back to the
center. Club head speed 102. Ball speed
144. Smash 141. Estimated carry 250.
That's three in a row at exactly the
same spot. I wasn't even sure if it read
that shot because it was the same. And
the spin 2215. Again, just a touch heel
side, but really close to the center.
All in all, an extremely forgiving club
because I'm hitting it all over the face
and it wants to go straight. But let's
see where it finished. All right, this
is the one I tugged and I'm close to the
card path, but it definitely did not hit
the card path. 261's the number on that
tug. And we got two in the fairway in
really good shape. I have found this to
be a very consistent driver, and you can
see it right here. These balls are real
close to each other in terms of
dispersion. This was, I think, my second
shot. 254 is the number.
This was our last one, which really I
thought I hit it perfect. I loved the
way it slightly drew. 259 is the number
here. We are into the wind here, by the
way. So, plenty of distance out of this
club. Plenty of forgiveness, but we got
another test here, the workability test.
Let's do that next. Now, a driver that's
so straight, so accurate like this one,
often you just don't get a ton of
workability out of it. But we're going
to go against my normal swing here. Try
to hit some fades and see what we get
here out of the max.
So, started that kind of left side of
the fairway. It is actually moving
pretty darn good. And we're going to
finish over there in the right rough.
Little lower trajectory on that one,
which I don't mind at all. Look good.
Shot two.
Little tighter there in terms of a fade,
but that is a nice power cut on it.
That's going to finish right side of the
fairway. Try to really exaggerate one on
this last swing and see if we can go max
movement.
Again, more of like a power fade there.
Started left side of the fairway,
finished right in the middle. All right,
so this one just missed the fairway
actually by like 2 feet. And these two
are pretty perfect. So again, this is
going to be more of a driver that is for
folks that want a really tight
dispersion being a 10k MOI driver. That
was pretty tight right there, even
though I really overexaggerated it there
on swing three. So you can get some
movement out of this one as we saw in
that first shot, but uh it's not going
to be extreme. But this is a driver for
folks that want to hit fairways. All
right, so after those three tests, as
well as some testing I've done indoors,
I'm ready to rank this driver. First
category is distance. This one has a ton
of pop. We've seen Toridge Exotics do
really well in the distance department
for the last three, four years. No
different here in 2026. I'm going to
give it a four and a half out of five
stars for distance. Excellent performer,
especially for a 10K model. 10K drivers,
generally we see the smash factor down a
little bit, and we are seeing it down a
little bit with this one, but it's
really squeaking out the extra yards
very well. So 4 and a half, very strong
score for a 10K max model. And if you do
need more distance, they've got the low
spin model that is ready and waiting for
you. That's going to be another review
here on the channel. So, hit subscribe.
Now, when it comes to forgiveness, a
massive category here, I'm giving it a
full five out of five. I still did not
hit one dead middle in all of my tests
here today, and we found the fairway
pretty consistently. In terms of
workability, that's where, again, this
driver outperformed my expectations. I'm
going to give it a four out of five for
workability. When it comes to
aesthetics, looks, feel, and sound. I
think for the first time ever, it's
getting a full five out of five for me.
It looks great. It sounds really good.
That was another complaint over the
years of Tour Edge drivers. It's still
not that thud we get out of a title list
or a tailor made. Those are by far my
favorites, but it's really good. It's
really good. And in terms of feel,
excellent as well. So, five out of five
for me. When it comes to value, it's
$499
with a very nice shaft on it. And that's
going to be a bit more than some of the
direct to consumer brands we've seen
here this year, but still less than the
OEM models. Tour to Edge prices are
starting to slip up though. So, in terms
of value, I'm going to give this one 4
and 1/2 out of five. I think you're
getting full performance, and you're
still getting it at a really good price.
On your screen is the score. It's a
really good one. This could already be
the driver of the year for 2026, and
we're still not out of 2025 yet. I've
enjoyed it so much. There are more Tour
Edge videos coming on this channel. And
if you are a budget shopper looking for
last year's model, I'm going to leave
that video right here for you. Hope you
enjoyed it. I'll catch you back here
next time on another edition of Let's
Play Through.