all right guys welcome back to the
channel today the man to my left Roy
maroy you're going to teach me maybe how
to hit it a little further okay um I'll
watch you hit a couple but I feel like I
I got the height but there's just like
there's not much speed there I don't
know you've got you've got the height
you've got the levers I think we can
we've got something to work with today
so I think we'll be all right yeah I
want to watch you hit a couple okay when
you're trying to go after it you need to
get inspired really quick let me see
when I'm really trying to hit it hard I
think I think a lot of it starts in the
setup okay like building a really good
base to then swing hard from there so if
I'm really going after one I'll like try
to move it up in my stance a little bit
okay so feel like it's almost off my
front foot yep yeah so like like I'm
already behind the ball anyway so I'll
try and get it way up my stance I'll
probably I'll I won't do anything with
my left foot but my right foot if it's
normally like here for a normal Drive I
might just give it a tiny it's a little
wider B little wider base just with my
right foot okay and then I feel like
this my left so my left arm and the
shaft sort of create like this one like
one straight line I like that so that's
sort of the way I stand to it and then
from there like I'm really I'm not
trying to do a ton in the back swing
differently I mean I've dabbled with
trying to swing it back faster you swing
it back faster it should come going
faster right um so maybe just trying to
to feel like I'm a little quicker off
the ball okay uh and then from there
it's like you know when I load to the
top it's really like I feel like I get
into my left side but then I really try
to hit feel like I'm hitting the golf
ball with my right hip so like I'm you
try and actually clear you're trying to
feel your lower body yeah but I it's
yeah I'm like I'm just trying to feel
like this and there's different way
people say get your left knee out of the
way or like tiger used to say snap his
left knee or get your right you know
whatever but it's basically just trying
to get as cleared and as open as
possible at impact okay so then your
upper body acts like a slingshot and
just right and just so well sweet let's
see one here all
right not fully warmed up but we'll give
one a go you're good excuses already all
right wi
B here we go get myself
going not being warmed up I was heel
it's probably like 182 is was
it 83 yeah okay that thing didn't move
that was that was okay it was pretty
straight yeah that was straight uh you
haven't swung in a while right yeah like
I'm I'll I'll I'll get up to I'll get up
to some decent streets 12 12 launch 320
carry 2300 spin so
again if I'm really going after one so
there up in The Stance W I see your St a
a little wider yeah and then from there
it's like just turn back and then just
this right I feel like this just yep I
love
that oh that one did move smoke though I
mean when you're swinging at it harder
usually your dispersion is going to go
yeah one more then I'll let you hit a
couple see if we
can smoke the way you hit up on it is
crazy I can just see like from here how
much you're hitting up on the golf ball
what was that 187 125 Club okay there
you go getting there yeah that was solid
187 327 carry 2500 all right all
right so
187 now is that like are you like really
happy with that or did you try and get
up higher than no I can get so um I
actually did a speed session in Dubai
last week uhhuh uh and I got up to 196
19 yeah that's my my my highest so yeah
I uh I did one speed session with Bryson
one time and I couldn't I can't feel my
AR I for two days I couldn't feel my
arms after cuz I was just like one after
the other just on the Range and I got up
to like
177 or something so that's kind of my
record but all right I'm going to go
with what kind of you said so you played
a little more up in The Stance yeah
wider stance yeah and then just feel
like that like your right pocket or your
right hip is just firing at the golf
ball okay so almost like my lower body
is clearing
all right need one
more tight your swing looks like you've
got like a the Target in mind like
you're very much like to me when I sort
of unlocked a little more speed it was
like I would swing on the Range and I
wouldn't care if I missed it literally
like I lit like and I was missing the
range like literally and then you can
bring it in from there but if we're just
working on speed like I mean like I feel
like that was like trying to make a golf
SW no you know that's that's the like
try and move the thing as fast as you
can okay like that's all you're trying
to do here okay here we go let's get up
to at least
170 there you go okay that's bad like
that's like if this is what we're
working on yeah well I don't have much
speed in me never you know but that's
the that's the thing that's what we're
trying to unlock okay that was better
what was that 72 72 there you go
literally like don't even think of the
target okay
nice that was hit well good what was
that 72 as well 72 okay we can get up to
like 70 yeah I'm not thinking about the
target anymore now I'm just like just
like try to move that club as fast as
possible don't even think of like the
ball or just okay just move that thing
as quick as you
can oh there I felt my lower body there
a little bit beautiful that's better
174 174 okay okay you know what's funny
like I feel in my mind I'm swinging so
hard right now I watch this you got so
much more in you though like that's the
thing like if you can just unlock
whatever that is that's that's where you
can get the speed and then you then you
can then you can work on the like
bringing it in and you know yeah yeah I
I need like that feeling that you have
though to like fire your lower body I
feel like I need that like something to
click yeah and that's where I'm trying
to get you out of the mindset of like
trying to hit a good golf shot if we're
just working on
speed there you go there we go there you
go that's good
75.5 75.5 there we go all right you get
in there you hit a couple I'll watch you
get that's good all right get the
adrenaline kind of pump in feels good
exactly I need to follow my own advice
here and not worry about where it's
going I can't even track dude that was
Smoke 126 178 I mean 188 believe I was
like 78 I was like8 88 okay that's fine
I'm working my way up okay that's 126 I
got the 130 Club head speed last week in
Dubai so okay I see warmer conditions
probably help right yeah and you know
this is the first time I've hadit a golf
ball since then so
yeah oh my
God jeez 188 126 18
jeez dude but I think the thing is with
you is like you still like maintain
somewhat of your golf swing I feel like
I really collaps maybe that's cuz you
work out you there could be a difference
there all right your body's like a
little more fit I don't know about that
I mean it's it's a unicorn man yeah
right there it is wow that was it was so
good 190
190 27 so you think you got a lot more
and you still though yeah it just takes
you a minute it just takes me a while so
yeah 337 carry all right there you go
2200 spin that I've never seen you go
after the ball like this like well I
mean you said you want to do a speed
session speed session this is sick this
is awesome cuz like I never see you do
this on you know on the television
yeah all right yeah on the national
see ah no good Miss I mean geez I mean
I'll take it as a Miss yeah swinging it
that fast6
127 I mean you so your Club speed there
was 127 so exactly yeah I'm getting yeah
you're getting like slowly just getting
up there creeping up there come on all
right come on let's get like 93
ah healed it
ah dude they're so H 27 again like the
height on that is just all right one
more and then you can hit a couple yeah
getting tired I'm noticing you're just
like you're catching on such an upswing
yeah 24 you're launching it high with no
spin Moon bow okay let's
see that was good that was nice that was
FL that was nice 127 and a half 191 191
that's still so good 27 and a half speed
that was I mean that's gone
341 there you go that was crazy 341 car
in the air
yeah does that get Bing 360 no this is
pretty it's pretty nice I I just feel
like the one thing you do is you still
like maintain your golf swing but it
doesn't feel like it but you're still
like in balance
but like I'm I mean I'm going after that
so hard yeah all right I got to get a
little crazy here we go so we got like
170 ball up wide stance and then just
get that lower body
going oh
nice felt better yeah 174 174 okay A
little opener that was a good spin as
well come on yeah 302 in the air let's
go come
on little slower there
73 lower body didn't feel like it moved
like I feel like I was in sand you know
yeah maybe it's like a little bit of an
athletic yeah it's like I mean feel like
you're jumping clearing and like
explode oh a little off the the heel was
this club head speed though 116 116 Club
head speed what have they been
116 16
166 is the fastest maybe is it okay W
I'm going to do a wider stance yeah that
was the fastest I'm going to try and do
a little bit wider on The
Stance we
go going a little left pretty good 174
117 there 117 okay that's been your
fastest swing yeah what was that ball
speed 174 74 okay feel like we got like
a couple more miles in us I like that
wider base that feels better yeah I'm
hitting them left though I feel like my
lower body still yeah like you yeah just
as much as you can I'm going to really
try and
fire straight right one more it was 117
again yeah the other thing I've always
found when I feel like I swing left I
get a little faster Club head speed as
well so a little bit more this way a
little further left I feel like I get
more I get a little more speed out of
good 175 and a half
17 trying to not worry about
Direction okay there you go 175 again 17
and a half 17 and a half so was that was
your quickest that was your quickest
swing yeah okay all right if you can get
the if you can take the target out of
your head when you're trying to do this
stuff
right oh my god dude I've never seen you
go after like that 127.66
was that 340 340 191 ball speed 12 7.6
so nearly 128 13 at
21100 191 128 they're Landing like on a
blanket out there 128 126 that
was Groove low D 20 2400 336 191 ball
speed all right okay that's what it is
just like gota just clear your mind of
technique and of strike and of Target
and just move that thing as fast as you
can that was yeah that was silly I've
never seen you go after like that what I
mean yeah you should probably be ripping
up the ground like taking divots with
your feet yeah but that's like if anyone
wants to like seriously think about
creating more speed like you that's
learn how to move the thing fast first
and then and then you can R it in and
then you start worrying about it but if
you can get your like I think the one
thing that I've realized if I can get my
fastest speed as high as possible then
my Baseline sort of comes up so I used
to I mean when I started working with
the tailor made guys like Adrian what
was that was I like one the first time I
worked with you you were you were 180
179 yeah 179 180 and now I Cru at 186
186 is that anything with the gym or
just I mean it's a little bit in the gym
so like whenever I did a little bit of
work on and and everything um you know I
did some stuff in the gym but I still do
I was doing stuff in the gym anyway but
I mean a lot of like jumping throwing so
one of the other things I do I do the
like some of these medicine ball throws
in the gym right and sometimes when I'm
doing this stuff I'll imagine myself
throwing the medicine ball like okay
what are my feelings when I'm don't you
go like this so I actually do one that's
like a shot put through so I'll hit I'll
I'll have the ball here and I'll a bit
like what Kyle Berkshire does right so
he'll he'll pressure into his left I'll
slide to my right right and then I plant
and I go that way so I try to feel the
same thing in my golf swing where it's
like I go left right and then in and all
my wit is moving into thef right so yeah
I like I like that wide stance ball
position forward and then for me I was
feeling like really shifting yeah I was
also feeling like a load into my right
side than so if I if I'm with that
medicine ball I'm left right and then
when I plant it's like the ball and my
hip and everything is going through
together yeah and that sort of
that was so impressive but dude thank
you so much I appreciate it guys
hopefully you all enjoyed that um I'll
probably be sore now um for a couple
days but that was I've never seen Rory
go after it like that and I've watched
you play for years and years and that
was that was the next level that was
like a different gear thank you but all
right guys till next time we're out
hopefully that gives everyone a little
more speed let's go