hangang Village in Shenzhen is widely
recognized as a wealthy Village and it
used to be famously known as the
mistress Village back in the day the
village was full of beautiful women
their boyfriends were mostly businessmen
white collar workers and truck drivers
who traveled between Hong Kong and
Shenzhen at its peak hangang Village had
around 50,000 Mistresses The Village was
packed with massage parlors karaoke bars
nightclubs and other places associated
with the sex industry earning it the
nickname a paradise for Hong kongers
however in recent years as Hong Kong's
economy has declined the once popular
trend of keeping Mistresses has
gradually faded that's
surprising holy [ __ ] I'm yeah that what
the [ __ ] why would they stop that
hangang Village is separated from Hong
Kong by just a river although it's
called a village it's essentially in the
Heart of the City this village with a
history of over 700 years is now known
as one of the most affluent Urban
villages The Village Gate is decorated
with intricate Dragon carvings on Stone
pillars with lions standing guard in
front creating a luxurious atmosphere
even from a distance you can't help but
Marvel at the Grandeur that sets it
apart from other Urban Villages yeah
this looks really good in the 1990s
shenen took advantage of its proximity
to Hong Kong leveraging special policies
and
incentives and it's coming never mind I
was wor as a result a large number of
Taiwanese Hong Kong and foreign
Enterprises came to invest and build
factories in Shenzhen with capital
flowing in many investors and business
people from Taiwan and Hong Kong
followed shenen as a special economic
zone and the Forefront of Reform also
attracted thousands of Migrant workers
including many young and beautiful girls
what a surprise girls mostly came from
rural areas some were quite simple and
used to a hard life making them easier
to get along with They Carried the
burden of supporting their families at a
young age at the time w and prices in
Shenzhen were relatively low wealthy men
from Hong Kong could spend between 4,000
to 8,000 Hong Kong dollars to keep a
young woman in an Urban Village
damn and so they just spent that money
holy
[ __ ] that's
crazy okay soon the trend of keeping
Mistresses spread throughout Shenzhen
the so-called mistress Villages were
residential areas where wealthy men kept
their Mistresses during China's rapid
economic growth some businessmen and
officials would secretly establish such
homes on the outskirts of the city to
hide from their wives these Urban
Villages became a special community and
were seen as symbols of indulgent
Lifestyles hangang Village is near the
hangang port which was a key crossing
point between Shenzhen and Hong Kong a
certain flashy group of people regularly
passed through this port they wore large
gold chains carried bulky cell phones
and spoke Mandarin with a Hong Kong
accent they frequented the most upscale
restaurants in Hong Kong Village often
accompanied by young beautiful women
this crazy how popular that [ __ ] is over
there I feel like over here it's like
way
less it's like way less common like
nowadays I feel like nobody really
brings this [ __ ] up at all like maybe
every once in a while I'd see this like
normalized in like Las Vegas but I feel
like over there it's totally different
as this lavish lifestyle expanded
certain residential developments in Shin
Jin's wo District let you Jing Garden
and jinglu garden became known for their
High concentration of Mistresses in the
mid 1990s shenzhen's Central Area
shifted Westward to the fuan district
and areas like Chang shaa Village Shad
Village and shway Village became favored
Hotspots for Hong kongers to hide their
Mistresses the widespread and open
practice of keeping Mistresses was
arguably unparalleled in Chinese
communities according to Hong Kong
Anthropologist Professor tan shawe by
the late 199 90s one in six Hong Kong
men working in mainland China had a
Mainland wife not
Jesus God damn so one in six of these
girls just showed up holy
[ __ ] kind of St Mistresses are just
hookers yeah basically they are yeah
that's what I would
say of these men were big bosses some
were ordinary workers earning tens of
thousands of Hong Kong dollars per month
Hong Kong as a port City served not only
as a central hub for economic and trade
exchanges between mainland China and the
west but also as a link connecting
mainland China and Taiwan at the time
Hong Kong was one of the top free trade
ports in the world and a global
logistics center with the advantage of
being a duty-free Port it had one of the
busiest container terminals globally and
various service Industries flourished as
a result Hong Kong's container truck
drivers and taxi drivers were already
earning over 10,000 Hong Kong dollars a
month Hong Kong Port became the busiest
border crossing for both passengers and
Freight in China and it was also the
first to operate 24 hours a day with
trucks frequently traveling between Hong
Kong and Shenzhen a trend of men keeping
Mistresses in Shenzhen
emerged in the evenings areas near
hangang Port such as hang Kong and Shang
sha Village would be lined with large
container trucks parked along the
roadside as drivers headed to their love
nests to meet their
Mistresses damn
oh my [ __ ]
god since Saye yeah this is I guess that
makes
sense back then diligent Hong Kong truck
drivers could earn around 30,000 Hong
Kong dollars a month which was
incredibly tempting for young women from
other provinces who came to shenen for
work these women who often worked
overtime and only earned around 1,000
unen a month were drawn to the
possibility of a much higher income
what's surprising is that the mistress
industry became completely open with no
tabos around either seeking a sponsor or
being
Jesus it's just totally [ __ ]
normalized oh my
God sponsor some Hong Kong businessmen
even openly recruited lovers and the
mistress industry adopted a referral
system a woman who had already become
the Mistress of a Hong Kong man would
recommend her cousins or close friends
when she knew that her Lover's friends
were also looking for someone in the
mainland these women often matched by
their Hometown friends quickly became
Mistresses to Hong Kong truck drivers
the men would rent a place close to the
border and provide their Mistresses with
around 4 to 5,000 Hong Kong dollars a
month for living expens
damn damn all
right fenses aside from waiting for the
drivers to come back for a short rest
the daily routine for these women
consisted of shopping playing majang
with their friends and comparing who
received the most money from their
patrons many Hong Kong businessmen
especially those involved in the jewelry
and clothing trades also followed this
trend and started maintaining second
homes in Shenzhen over time not only
rural women but also female University
students became a primary source of
Mistresses it was a well-known fact that
female University graduates faced
employment difficulties especially since
many companies discriminated against
women some of these students burdened by
student loans and struggling with
financial difficulties at home felt
immense pressure to find a job quickly
if they couldn't the impact on them was
significant whether they were
workingclass women or University
students their goal was the same to make
money quickly improve their lives and
support their families when they
couldn't achieve that through
conventional means becoming a mistress
seems like a natural alternative what a
surprise what a [ __ ]
surprise
yep I I feel like this is what happens
anytime oh if it is AI I don't think
it's AI just somebody reading the same
way yeah I think this is pretty normal
it's it's a symbiosis yeah I feel like
people do this in every culture this is
super [ __ ]
normalized it's not even a
question when they're working they look
[ __ ] miserable the whip is always
near yeah that's probably true it's the
same as like only fans right I mean only
fans is a uh it's a different way of
this but I feel like it's pretty much
the same thing at that time the mistress
industry in Shenzhen had already become
well organized symbolizing a certain
sense of fashion and trendiness do you
think this is bad or good um is it bad
to have a mistress culture I feel like
it's probably
bad yeah I I do think it's bad because
like then you're going to have a lot of
kids and then like the kids probably end
up getting born and then they don't have
a dad around I feel like it's probably
not good for the culture yeah sounds
pretty bad I would say so even gave
Shenzhen the name mistress City mhm
Mistresses in shinen generally fell into
two categories the first was the
long-term type where the woman's Hong
Kong boyfriend was usually older and
there was a more established emotional
bond between them making the
relationship relatively stable the
second was the short-term type where the
relationship only lasted around a year
or so resembling more of a cohabiting
boyfriend girlfriend situation see
that's what's crazy to me about it is
like they just have people that live in
that are like basically paid girlfriends
oh my God people hook up through only
fans I feel like that happens a lot with
like Instagram because like I see models
talking about that all the time it's
super [ __ ]
common typically when the man stops
showing up or refus to pay for her
upkeep the woman would break up with him
sell off everything in the house end the
lease and either leave Shenzhen or find
another man to support her according to
a report by Phoenix TV there were as
many as 50,000 and Mistresses in Hong
gang Village alone other areas like
baling hongu Road and shinjo were also
densely populated with Mistresses in
other parts of guangong such as Jang
Muto in dongwan the number of Mistresses
reached a peak of
120,000
Jesus in one [ __ ]
place this is insane by up there I a
need to move there this is insane pay me
to exist I know this is insane
it's estimated that there were at least
300,000 Mistresses in Shenzhen mhm many
Hong Kong men chose to have their
Mistresses settle down in these areas
and if you talk to these women they
would all say the same thing in a couple
of years my child's father will arrange
for his Hong Kong
residency ADI a young woman from rural
Hub saw her allowance from her Hong Kong
boyfriend increase from 8,000 Yen a
month to 20,000 yen she kept herself
well- groomed visited beauty salons for
manicures enjoyed afternoon tea played
ma Jang with friends and spent her
evenings watching movies or chatting
online she had a comfortable place to
live and her job was simple she she only
needed to spend four or five nights with
her boyfriend each month every time
wow what a [ __ ] job that is
crazy they God he would also give her
gifts like bags shoes or Cosmetics for
AI who had never finished middle school
and lacked any real skills this
lifestyle left her feeling content one
girl once said working in a factory
means laboring for over 12 hours a day
barely earning a few hundred Yen living
with a Hong Kong man means no work and
no worries about life what's wrong with
that as the phenomenon of being true
that's the thing is like a lot of them
they probably don't have anything else
that they're going to do so yeah they're
just like you know what [ __ ] it let's do
it yeah and also like they probably make
way more money doing that than anywhere
else
I I feel like that's like a it is a very
very true
thing for pound Billy Sue purple ha
America expect the same maybe right a
mistress became more common the mistress
Villages flourished coinciding with Hong
Kong's golden age of economic growth the
community in these Villages became
increasingly complex with relationships
becoming more transactional take
shaoling for example she stopped her
education after middle school and heard
that she could make good money in
Shenzhen to support her family she
followed her fellow villagers to
guangong to work at first she worked in
a factory and lived in a dormatory but
soon she moved out she met a wealthy
Hong Kong businessman who claimed to be
single and said that she was lonely from
working
abroad oh boy oh boy oh boy yep there
you go take the call I guess so yeah
women have live easy lives bro come on
as wants to change jobs yeah where is
this again
Jing young and inexperienced fell for
his sweet talk and became his mistress
later she found out that he had a wife
and daughter in Hong
Kong that's never happened
before even though she realized that
never happen she couldn't give up the
comfortable life the businessman
promised shaoling that if she could give
him a son he would give her a lump sum
of 300,000 Yen a huge amount at the time
the condition was that the child would
be raised by his wife in hunger Kong and
shaoling would not see the child again
if it were a daughter she would receive
80,000 yen but the child would still go
to the wife shaing accepted reasoning
that even after 10 or 20 years of hard
work she couldn't earn that kind of
money after shaoling gave birth to a
daughter the businessman quickly
arranged to send the child to Hong Kong
it wasn't until shalene experienced the
pain of being separated from her child
that she realized what sort of deal she
made she begged the businessman to let
her keep the baby until the child's
first month but he refused and
transferred the promised money to her he
also told her what a
surprise what a surprise yeah [ __ ] start
no this is how it is yeah the wife knew
I guess so it's got to be trafficking
that is actually like so that's another
big reason why a lot of this stuff can
be really bad is that the overlap
between this and
trafficking huge [ __ ] overlap massive
[ __ ] overlap it's not even it's so
bad
to disappear immed especially like and
and it gets see like it gets worse and
it gets better in some cases when it
becomes legal right because like the
people that are doing it are doing it in
a way worse way when it's legal but uh
or sorry when it's illegal but there's
probably a lot more people doing it
whenever it's uh it is legal warning
that if she continued to bother him her
reputation would be ruined shaoling then
realized that she would never see her
child again and the businessman
ruthlessly abandoned her many women in
the mistress Villages had experiences
similar to shaoling some didn't have
children but their stories often ended
in sadness after China joined the World
Trade Organization it became closer to
Western countries and the incomes in
mainland China started Rising real
estate prices continued to climb and the
pressure of high costs discouraged Hong
Kong men from keeping Mistresses in
Shenzhen nowadays Hong Kong they get an
expensive bro that's the whole flation
right there oh my god do the children
are used organs yeah exactly right no
it's really [ __ ] scary uh it is like
that's why it's bad poor women
consequences for Action about men
working 12 hours a day well I think that
like you can notice that like something
like this is bad while at the same time
saying you know like it's obvious that
you know like there's a bad component to
it as
Well's economic growth has been dragged
down by the mainland's economic slowdown
and tensions between China and the US
foreign investments in Hong Kong are
rapidly withdrawing and and Hong Kong
status as an International Financial
Center continues to decline former
Mistresses either sell off their
possessions and look for other wealthy
men to support them or return to the
workplace they're like a form of
property attached to their patrons
always at risk of being discarded one
woman who had been a mistress to four
different Hong Kong men said now Hong
Kong men have no conscience when it
comes to Mistresses because I wonder
why yeah there you
go back to factory yeah how getting
expensive it is yeah what if the [ __ ] do
you expect
exactly women on the only way of making
good money it's pretty bad uh I think
it's probably more complicated than that
I think it's like it's the people that
come from Villages that didn't have
other opportunities that would come and
take advantage of this because of
that of the economic downturn they don't
offer lifelong support anymore it's
become more like a monthly rental
arrangement in recent years you hardly
see Hong Kong drivers in Hong Gong
anymore industry insiders say that Hong
Kong drivers can no longer afford to
spend money in the mainland their annual
income has dropped to around $200,000
Hong Kong dollars which doesn't match
the rising cost of living it's hard
enough for them to visit their
Mistresses twice a month given they
spend over 12 hours a day on the road
many rely on garlic to stay awake just
to maintain their
income what the [ __ ] that's
insane Hong Kong's truck drivers are
just one example of industries that were
once thriving but have now fallen into
decline today hang Kong Village has lost
its former bustle if you walk around
asking about Mistresses only the older
generation still remembers the old
stories most people have forgotten the
secrets of the past standing at the
archway of hang Kong Village and looking
out the streets are now filled with busy
office workers the mistress Village has
become a thing of the past economic
factors have played a role in the rise
and fall of the mistress Villages among
Hong Kong's economic decline shingen's
mistress Villages are gradually being
Swept Away by the tides of change one
could say that while Hong Kong is in
Decline shingen's future may not be so
different the cost of maintain I feel
like that's what happens in any sort of
like big country like that or any big
area like that it happens a lot they
aren't going to elaborate further than
that yeah I like why the [ __ ] does
garlic work I have no idea do you
remember the Hong Kong protests yeah
well those are really big it was
insane a mistress is far beyond the
reach of Ordinary People however for
China's corrupt officials and Wealthy
individuals it's not an issue
in fact even across the ocean in Los
Angeles there are similar mistress
villages in the Hills East of Los
Angeles lies an area filled with villa
style residential neighborhoods as you
drive up the mountain roads you'll see
rows upon rows of mansions surrounded by
vibrant Gardens this is Roland Heights
it's said that wealthy Chinese
businessmen and officials spend Millions
to buy luxury homes here under the guise
of it's a nice [ __ ] place it is
managing the Villas allowing their
Mistresses to live there openly these
rich and powerful men can't visit often
usually coming only once a year for 10
days to two weeks before returning to
China for the rest of the year the
Mistresses are left alone in these Grand
Homes these women not only live in
luxury homes and drive expensive cars
but they also have little to occupy
their time during the day they go
shopping eat out buy clothes get their
hair done and visit beauty salons this
has led to the booming what a surprise
yeah la yeah there you go only fan house
exactly success of Chinese restaurants
Beauty salons clothing stores and video
shops in the Roland Heights area in the
evenings the Mistresses often gather to
play cards or even stay up all night
playing Ma Jang the Mistresses tend to
share similar backgrounds experiences
and hobbies so they like to stick
together having plenty in common to talk
about and helping each other out as a
result they buy homes close to one
another and over time the mistress
Village formed gaining a reputation
among the local Chinese Community the
presence of so many Mistresses can be
seen at Los Angeles International
airport where every day Chinese women
are anxiously waiting at the arrival
gates for flights from China what a
surprise yep what a [ __ ] surprise bro
they're spawn camping him yeah there you
go Housewives of China I know moving
that right now there you
go when an older man emerges one of the
young women will rush to meet him taking
his arm and heading off in a Mercedes or
BMW towards mland Heights these
Mistresses share another common trait
they're all young and beautiful
some of them are even singers or
actresses but time catches up with
everyone over time some Mistresses have
fought with illegal wives for their
husbands and succeeded in becoming the
official wife others have remarried and
become someone else's wife for those who
didn't marry or didn't want to they sold
their homes for a profit and moved into
cheaper properties in recent years Los
Angeles real estate has been booming
with prices rising year after year these
Mistresses have accumulated wealth over
time and the departure of the men no no
longer worries them for corrupt CCP
officials keeping Mistresses has become
a badge of honor and having a mistress
has even become a trend in official
circles statistics show that 95% of
corrupt
damn
damn officials who have been
investigated had Mistresses or kept
second wives wait how
many and having a mistress has even
become a trend in official circles
statistics show that 95% of corrupt
officials that's a
lot okay that's a that's really bad who
have been investigated have Mistresses
or kept second
wives wow holy [ __ ] but how many are
corrupt I don't know that is insane the
5% are women yeah exactly oh my [ __ ]
God you know what's funny is I think
that you're probably right about that
you are only corrupt yeah propaganda I
don't know about propaganda I feel like
in a lot of cases stuff like that is
true 102% are corrupt yeah there's the
video that is [ __ ]
crazyy Bill Clinton would fit right in
yeah is that right here what's this here
China is doing reverse
Dei it's crazy how like you have like a
whole economy built around something and
then it just ends up turning in Reverse
you know and I think that there's like
so many people I've seen so many guys
like there's like the whole passport
thing like oh I'm going to go over there
and like meet my wife over there or
something like that it's super super
[ __ ] common it is incredibly common
passport Bros yeah I know it's
massive yeah top comment just like ma
envisioned yeah exactly give me a minute
I got to use the bathroom I'll link you
guys the video give it a like this is I
I like watching these because I find
them very
interesting China is doing reverse Dei
trying to get their women back at home I
think there's a lot of places that are
doing that actually like it's getting
super comment