the dreaded chunked chip shot. And I
know it's a shot that a lot of you
suffer with. And really, there is no
need to suffer with it at all. It's a
shot that is really going to hurt your
ability to score. And it doesn't take
long for you to get quite nervous, isn't
it, and start worrying about what might
happen over the ball. The key reason I
see for that is the player is unable to
manage the low point and the arc depth,
but really the low point of the swing is
the most important aspect to it. So for
a chip and run shot, it's really
important to make sure that your your
weight is on your forward side here. So
you really want to make sure that the
ball position is just inside your trail
heel there with a little bit of shaft
lean. Don't go crazy. A little bit of
shaft lean there. But really make sure
that the majority of your weight is
through your lead side. So imagine a
line that runs through the middle of the
foot, through the knee, through the hip,
through the shoulder, all almost through
your left ear. That's what I call your
pivot line. And I think it's really
important in short game to establish a
pivot line. And then from there, once
you've once you've got that set, you've
got something in which you can rotate
around because I see so many golfers
setting up for a chip shot with a lot of
shoulder tilt. It's great for hitting a
driver, by the way. A lot of shoulder
tilt and most of the weight back on the
right hand side. Suddenly here, the
chest bone is way behind the ball and
that's why we tend to get those heavy
strikes. So, let's hit some from that
improved setup position. So we go ball
position just back. Nice narrow stance
as well. By the way, the wider you
stand, the more compa capacity you have
to start moving from side to side and
again getting those those heavy strikes.
So ball position right heel, hands a
little forward, weight forward. Keep
your weight forward there throughout the
swing.
And you can start getting really solid
shots like that. Low flight, a little
bit of check. And if you're lucky, it
might go in, not quite. But you can see
how controlled that was. And it was very
much a ball first contact. And that's
what you're looking for with that chip
and run strike, a ball first contact.
The other way in which you can really
struggle with contact, assuming you've
got a good setup position like you just
got into there,
is if you go to the top of the swing and
you can also chunk it with this handle
traveling downward for too long. So, it
can lag and it can pull down into the
ground, which can then get that leading
net digging and sticking in too much.
That's why I talk about how you release
the club. And how important that release
is. So when you start releasing the
club, you start opening up through the
ball. Your spine will lift a little bit
and the club will start to flow and the
club will start to bruise the turf. So
we don't want to feel like we're going
downward. We are releasing the club. As
the club releases, the body will rotate
and it will sort of avoid your body
going down into the ground. So you'll
see how I'm actually sort of slightly
standing up through the shot. And you
can see I get that really good quality
strike every time. No divot at all. It's
just bruising the grass and sliding
through. Makes it so easy to repeat. So
one more doing that. So I've got the
ball position inside the right heel. My
chest bone is in front. I want to hit a
low shot. Always a good idea to get the
hands nice and high, by the way. That
pulls you in a little bit closer to the
ball.
And we release through and it slides
through really nicely, really easy. I'm
using my MG5 56 degree SB 12 degree
bounce for that and it feels very easy
in terms of how that's sliding through
the turf. So that release of the club
very important. Also grip pressure. I
can't say how important that is. I've
taught so many golfers and I I don't
think I ever remember telling one golfer
to grip it tighter. So you're probably
gripping a little bit too tight. And
when you start to grip it lighter, it is
amazing how that club starts to flow,
starts to release almost on its own, and
your spin rate will really improve
um if you start to loosen your grip off.
Okay, so that's really key to do that.
In terms of grinds, the Tonade MG5
grind, they're all designed to get the
club working through the turf in a
friendly fashion. The standard bounces
the SBDS CDSX. Fantastic for working
through the turf. I've moved to an SX
here. This has got 11Â°. It's a wider
sole and it's got a nice bit of camber
on the back here. So, I can just know
that the club is going to want to work
through the turf a little bit easier
with with this grind. So, if you are a
golfer that perhaps has been struggling
with this a little bit and you don't
feel fully confident with what I've just
taught you for now, you know, you're
working through it, then an SX grind
probably going to help you out a little
bit more. I've hit that there on purpose
around about an inch before the ball
just to show you. And see, the contact
is absolutely fine. And that's what
short game is about. It's not always
about trying to be perfect. It's about
getting an increased margin of error. So
there I hit a little before and it kept
sliding through because of this wider
sole and that's something you can think
about as well. So make sure you nail
your basics. Become world class over the
ball. Chest in front of of the uh of the
ball there and allow the club to flow
and release as you rotate to really get
those perfect strikes on your chip and
run shots.