Ladies and gentlemen, is your favorite
white colonizer tall, the traveling
clack, coming to you live from the land
of Israel that was promised to me 3,000
years ago. Get the merch in the
description down below. The
travelingcl.com. It seems that the
genocide
is officially over as of today. At least
that's a celebrations coming out of the
Gazin side. I triple and quadruple
checked my sources today when I woke up
at 6:00 in the morning here in Israel.
It's just around 8 a.m. right now and
I've been just checking over and over
again to make sure so I don't give you
guys any false news or false hope, but
everything indicates I mean every
official source is indicating that this
is actually going through. There is no
hearsay here. A ceasefire deal has been
signed and agreed upon and Saturday or
Sunday there will be the full release of
all Israeli hostages that Hamas was able
to get back because they're not going to
get back everybody as we know. uh they
just they mis uh misused and disregarded
many bodies and unfortunately not all
the hostages are going to be coming back
home but all the live ones from what we
understand are coming back home and uh
Israel will be withdrawing from 70% of
the Gaza Strip on either Saturday or
Sunday at that point and that will be
the first phase of the ceasefire and
then end of the war agreement. We're
going to be watching a lot of content.
We're going to be talking about it. This
is going to be your full scoop, full
update on what exactly is going on. So
this first one is coming from Jewish
breaking news. Historic Trump address
Israeli Knesset Sunday as hostages may
be released as early as Saturday.
President Donald Trump will make a
historic Isra visit to Israel on Sunday
to address the Knesset following the
signing of the first phase of the Gaza
peace plan between Israel and Hamas. The
deal hailed as a historic achievement
includes the release of all remaining
hostages which could begin as early as
Saturday according to Israeli and US
officials. Trump wrote on Truth Social,
"Israel and Hamas have both signed the
first phase of our peace plan. All the
hostages will be released very soon.
Blessed are the peacemakers." Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyao thanked Trump
for his unwavering commitment to Israel
security and freedom to our hostages.
And here's a picture of the two of them
together. We'll be looking at a breaking
news update here. Let's take a look.
>> Mentioned they were waiting on Truth
Social and here it is. Uh, President
Donald Trump, I am very proud to
announce that Israel and Hamas have both
signed off on the first phase of our
peace plan. This means that all of the
hostages will be released very soon and
Israel will withdraw their troops to an
agreed upon line as the first steps
toward a strong, durable, and
everlasting peace. All parties will be
treated fairly. This is a great day for
the Arab and Muslim world, Israel, and
all surrounding nations and the United
States of America. And we thank the
mediators from Qatar, Egypt, and Turkey
who worked with us to make this historic
and unprecedented event happen. Blessed
are the peacemakers. Again, Donald J.
Trump, president of the United States,
out on True Social as we were talking
there. Ari, put this in historical
perspective, knowing all we know about
the years and years, decades of turmoil
in the Middle East.
Well, what's truly remarkable about this
is previous breakthroughs existed
between Israel and unique nations,
Israel and Egypt, Israel and Jordan.
Then you had the Abraham Accords
expanding it to a wider group of
nations, Bahrain, the UAE. But never
before have you had an agreement with
Hamas,
eight Arab, eight Muslim nations, seven
Arab, one nation, Turkey Muslim nation,
Israel, and the United States. That is
the breakthrough here. From a humane
point of view, it is wonderful and
joyous that the hostages will come home.
Families can finally at long last be
reunited. But there are two big steps
that remain. And those steps are the
disarmament of Hamas and Hamas
relinquishing control and power. Those
two are going to be the trickiest ones
yet.
Yeah. But obviously the Biden
administration was working uh towards
this. They didn't have success. Uh this
looks like a major breakthrough. We
have, you know, Steve Witoff, the Middle
East envoy, and Jared Kushner, uh, the
president's son-in-law, who obviously
was crucial in the last administration
for the Abraham Accords, the Gulf
States, uh, basically establishing
relations with with Israel. Uh, they
were crucial to all of this for weeks
and weeks. Your thoughts on this big
picture and, uh, how Democrats maybe
will react to it? Well, I think some
Democrats might say that real diplomacy
happens in quiet and not necessarily on
truth social and that this
administration has oftentimes celebrated
before things are inked. However, I do
think there will be great bipartisan
consensus on this. This is a win for
both sides here. I mean, I got the
opportunity when I worked for President
Biden to get to meet some of those
hostages, some of the young children
that were released, and I know the
impact and the pain that this has had
for a lot of those people. And so I
think that this will be a great way for
Democrats and Republicans at a time that
they're so fraught on the Hill given the
shutdown to find a common ground.
>> Yeah, Brit, you know, in the wake of
October 7th and obviously we're one day
uh from that anniversary uh to look back
and all that has transpired. Uh Israel
was reluctant at first to get to this
point. Uh and it really was President
Trump pushing arguably behind the
scenes, BB Netanyahu, the Israeli prime
minister. uh to to get to this ceasefire
and the key part as you mentioned is the
hostages both dead and alive coming out.
>> So this is the position that we're at
right now. It's more complex than it
seems and I know people are very h I'm
extremely happy. I am I know I just woke
up so maybe I don't seem so happy but uh
I'm extremely happy to hear that this is
happening. Um it's for the last couple
months my doctrine has been let's get
the hostages back home. the the the high
price has already been paid on our end.
Let's get them home and see what we do
next. Um, but this story is more
complicated than it seems right now. And
yes, we can all celebrate and be happy.
But,
you know, until it done is done, I I I
stay very hesitant with the people that
we're dealing with. But, let's keep
taking a look here at more stuff that
happened. Trump uh forced an end to a
roundt discussion after receiving news
at Marubia that a peace deal in Gaza was
signed.
>> Criminal conspiracy. Okay.
>> I'm just given
>> Yeah, I was just given a note by the
Secretary of State saying that we're
very close to a deal in the Middle East
and they're going to need me uh pretty
quickly. So, uh we'll take a couple of
more questions.
>> Criminal conspiracy.
>> Okay,
>> so this is it breaking out live. These
are the families of the hostages.
[Music]
>> Former hostage Emily Damari.
Wow. Is it awesome?
[Applause]
[Music]
>> And you know these these are the people
who know they know better than anybody
else what it's like. Emily de Mar spent
a insane amount of time, lost a finger,
fought her way through the entire time
she was there. So this joy is something
that is unparalleled. It's more more
than any of us in the country can
understand. Even with all the gruesome
descriptions we have received from
former hostages,
um it's it's quite amazing to see this.
It really is like it's it's very
powerful. Uh here's also footage of
hostage families
praying.
This is the friends and family of
hostage sev kon reciting tin taleim or
psalms if you guys know what psalms are
from the bible um which we usually do in
hopes of something better. Now, the
complex part of this. Wait, hold on. We
actually we have one more video from the
White House, which is going to be good.
Also, I like the White House media team.
They're very, very on top of their
stuff.
>> All right, hold on.
>> President Trump, you have the best crowd
in the world. What do you guys have to
say to President Trump?
>> Thank you, everybody.
>> You did it.
>> You did it.
>> Thank you. This is amazing,
>> Mr. President. We believe in you. We
know you've done so much for us over the
past since you became a president and
even before that. And we trust you
fulfill the mission until every hostage,
every 48 of the hostages are home. Thank
you so much. Blessed be the peacemakers.
God bless you, Mr. President. God bless
America.
>> Thank you very much. You just take care
of yourselves. The hostages will come
back. They're coming all coming back on
Monday.
[Applause]
Thank you, sir. Thank you.
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
It's hard not to get emotional watching
this, isn't it?
>> It's very hard not to get emotional
watching this stuff. It really is. This
is uh
this is big, man. This has been the
culmination of two years of our lives um
that many of us have spent
uh waiting and hoping and wandering and
and and and and our lives have changed
and it seems like it is culminating
towards some sort of end.
Now, let me explain to you guys a couple
factors here, okay? And this is really
the most important thing to remember.
This is phase one of a ceasefire deal.
We know at this point right now that not
all the hostages, not all the deceased
bodies of hostages cuz God knows what
the Gazin animals have done with them,
the animals within Gazin, not all Gazins
have done with the bodies. And
that I don't know how that affects the
deal. I haven't heard a single word
about it, but I guess it's not as
important as getting out the live
hostages that are there. From what I've
understood, the number is 20 of exactly
20 live hostages. That means that 28
other people they need to be coming
they're going to be coming out within 72
hours of the signing of the deal which
is today. We just I don't have any more
details on that. I've tried asking
sources. I've got nothing for you guys
on that. I will update you the second I
know. Uh I will try to get an update.
It's also you have to remember right now
we're going through Jewish holidays. It
was a holiday the last two days. Today
we have a break then it's Shabbat
tomorrow. So Friday, Saturday we're off
basically or just Friday evening,
Saturday we're off. Sunday they'll be
back. It's like it's going to be crazy.
And then the holidays again like Monday,
Tuesday. So just so you guys know, I
mean trying to keep you guys updated,
but this is this is happening at like
the craziest time. But God bless.
Alhamdulillah.
Um, so that's the first very important
thing. And the second most important
thing to remember, this is just phase
one. Okay, phase one is the idea of us
retreating from most of the Gaza Strip
and there and us getting our hostages
back and then us releasing a bunch of
life sentence mass murderers back to
Gaza.
This does not solve the Middle Eastern
crisis.
Now, I'm not saying I don't have hope in
Trump and the team.
I'm just saying this action alone does
not solve the crisis in the Middle East.
If anything, as I'm about to show you
right now, so please don't go anywhere
because you're about to see, we've just
emboldened the Palestinian population to
do this again.
So,
while again, I'm very much in support of
a hostage deal right now. I have I have
been for the last couple months,
band-aid solutions are going to be the
death of us and the death of many people
in the future. And I want you guys to
take a look at what's going on in Gaza
amidst the ongoing genocide, ethnic
cleansing, and apartheid that their
concentration camp is dealing with.
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
There's a Hamas flag there on the left
just you see.
>> Here's another clip from Gazins
chanting.
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
For those of you guys who don't know
what
is, it's a death chant for the mass
murder of Jews. the actual genocidal
chant of Jewish people calling back to
the time
>> the prophet Muhammad uh waged war
against the Jews of Kaibar um and
massmurdered them and then beheaded the
heads of his 10th wife Safia uh the
heads of her husband or her brother and
her father and then went went on to
force marry her and check the pubes
pubic hair of all uh the guys in his
village. and then murder the ones who
were of age of puberty. So when is
chanted, it's a clear call for the
genocide of the Jews. And you can see a
very frail, innocent, dying population
starving of Gazins right there.
[Music]
Hey. Hey, hey, hey.
[Applause]
[Music]
>> Yep. So, they even have songs. I never
heard that song. Let's watch it one more
time.
>> I'll give you guys the lyrics. Okay,
this is very important for you guys to
see. the starving, innocent, frail
population of G. By the way, one of the
reasons why I was never every time those
clips came out of the Gazins who were
like, "Fuck Hamas. We don't like Hamas."
Wait, this is why I was always very
hesitant. I do believe, unfortunately,
that this is the majority opinion in
Gaza. This is the majority of the people
believe in this in Gaza. Here it is,
>> October 7th. What a message are we
sending to Netanyahu on this day?
On the 7th of October, we invaded you.
We trampled you with our boots. We
pulled you out of the tank.
[Music]
>> And your soldiers are like sheep and
Netanyahu, you coward.
And the Kasam brigades beat you.
>> So there you go. you know, a very
peaceloving,
genocided, starving, ethnically cleansed
population.
Um, I want to show you guys one last
clip that actually comes from my YouTube
channel, my Instagram, my Tik Tok. I
just I literally just posted it first
thing as I
>> when the uh announcement of the
ceasefire went through. Here's a
conversation I had with a Hamas member
recently. Are you Hamas?
Because you eat good. I mean,
>> can I see?
>> No, no, no.
You can talk to me like are you Hamas?
Because in
Got
>> you're not hungry. No.
>> [ __ ] [ __ ] Are you?
Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a
circus. Like I've said, we live in the
Rick and Morty universe.
I am so insanely happy and excited for
the hostages to come home. I'm hoping
this goes off without a hitch, but we're
not out of the woods yet. Okay? I want
everybody to keep that in mind. Let's
all put our together, our our our brains
together and pray and hope for the safe
relief release of all these hostages.
Everybody comes home. Everybody is
reunited with their family at the very
very least, okay? That all the live
hostages are back home with their
families by no later than Monday, like
Trump said on the on that phone call.
Let's hope and pray that that comes to
fruition.
everything past that point. And I'm not
saying that the dead bodies of the
deceased hostages are not important, but
what I'm saying is let's get through
that first phase. Make sure that
everybody we know that is alive is home
with our people.
I don't trust Hamas. I don't even trust
the agreement that we have signed with
them. I don't trust the mediators in
this process. I don't trust any of the
countries besides United States of
America and Israel who signed this
agreement.
I'm skeptical as all hell of what might
break down and what might happen from
this. And amidst all this, there have
been ongoing threats from Iran and
Yemen.
We're not out of the woods yet. It's not
over.
But I'm looking forward to hopefully
very soon coming on camera and telling
you guys the war is officially over.
Everybody is announcing the end of the
war. It's not, this war is not over
until it's actually over. I want
everybody to be very, very clear about
that. Until the hostages are back in
their homes with their families and it's
done. My friend Barack Schwarz, other
Barack is very, he's been very good at
talking about this. Um, but it's really
important to announce until the war is
over, all our troops are outside. We're
not bombing Lebanon. We're not bombing
Hamas. We're not bombing uh the Houthis.
There's no there's not ongoing
incursions going on. This is still very
much a war. Remember that. Keep it into
perspective. But let's celebrate the
small things.
Inshallah, God willing,
[Music]
the hostages are coming back home. I'm
so so so so excited for that. It's going
to be amazing. It's going to be a very
powerful and very happy day here in
Israel. I'll see you guys in the next
one. I love you long time. Goodbye. Cl
Have you struggled with repping your
Zionism in style? Well, boy, do I have a
solution for you. Head to the
travelingclad.com and become a sweet
Zionist prince or princess today. Or
maybe even let the world know you're a
white colonizer with matching hat. Tell
the comments section you were thrown out
of 109 countries by joining the 109 club
with a matching hat. They say it was
promised to you 2,000 years ago, double
down and grab a shirt that was promised
to you 3,000 years ago with a matching
hat. Ever dreamed of Zionizing like me?
Do it with a matching hat. Damn it. Show
off your Iraqi pride by being someone's
back daddy or showing them you were made
in Iraq with a matching hat. It's time
to laugh in the face of those who attack
us. Wear their hate with pride and you
become untouchable. The
travelingclad.com. We got mugs,
stickers, shirts, hoodies, and so much
more. Go grab yourself something nice,
habibis and habibis. You deserve it. If
you don't want to buy any merchandise,
the best way to support me is by
donating on buy me a coffee, my PayPal,
or becoming a member on my Patreon. Your
support is very much needed and very
much appreciated. Thank you.