So on the cutting edge of coding agents,
claude code is one of the most popular
and they just did some updates the 2.0
update. So today's uh video I thought we
can just build a quick AI app, show you
how fast we can do that and just go
through all the changes they did in 2.0
here. So the first thing we want to
start with if you want to build an AI
app in cloud code, uh this is of course
linked to your uh current working
directory. As you can see here, we have
set this to this directory here. So, I'm
just going to go into this directory and
let's build that app. So, I just
navigate into the directory. I think I
call it AI app, right? I do claude and
we head into here. And yeah, this has
loaded up in our directory. Perfect. So,
now we can start, right? And what I want
to do first is uh I want to use a video
model for this. Right. So, I'm going to
go to FAL AI, pick uh Cling 2.5 Pro. I'm
just going to click documentation.
I'm going to go to the API. Uh I think I
want to use Python this time. So, I'm
going to grab all the documentation
here. Right. Copy that. And I'm going to
go to my working directory. Do a cling
dot or let's call [music] it cling.md.
Right. Paste it in. And that's basically
all the documentation we need. I did av
here with my file API key. Right? So
what we can do now with claude is just
do something like this. I need a simple
AI app in HTML CSS that can take a photo
of me using the webcam store it locally.
The app should also be able to send this
photo using the video model cling with a
prompt. So we can read and we can tag
the documentation here. Right? Uh and
when the API returns the video, the app
should be able to play the video. Create
a plan for this. Now we can do shift tab
and select plan mode. Okay. So I'm going
to run plan mode. This will create a
plan and then we can execute this. So
all of this was uh already in cloud
before 2.0. You can see now we have our
plan here. Uh yeah that looks fine.
Okay. So we're going to execute on the
plan. So what is new? If we look here we
can now do like a terminal refresh. We
can do uh CtrlR plus a searchable prompt
history. We can do / usage. We can check
that out. So if we go here slash usage
right now you can see how much we have
used. This is uh pretty helpful if you
ask me and you can see we can toggle
here we can check status config and
usage and you can see how we are doing
on kind of our rate limits here. Okay so
that is one thing we can do. We can now
do something like if we see here
checkpoints we can do a double esque or
rewind. We're going to check that out
later. But now let's start our app here.
execute the plan. Right, I'm just going
to give the instruction now the cloud
code that is running on the new model
set 4.5. Uh we had a look at that in the
first episode of on the edge. So this is
also a upgrade I would say for 2.0. So
let's execute the plan now and see what
we came up with. If we are if you want
to rewind something we can try to do
that. Okay. So that was done, right? So
what we can do now is try to test this
out. So if we go here, we can yeah, I
guess we can start the server first,
right? On 8080. Uh let's run our app.py.
Okay. So let's open up a new here local
host. Let's do 8080. This should work.
Okay. So now you can see we can capture
our photo. Hello. So let's do this.
Okay. So we have an image. Let's do
something like guy. Guy picks up the
camera and starts blogging. I don't
know. So now we can send this request,
right? So we are sending this to the
file API. And now we're just going to
wait to see if we get the video back.
And yeah, your generated video. And here
we have it. So let's see what happens
when we play this now.
Okay. So I guess I didn't do anything
other than starting adjusting my camera.
Uh but it looks pretty good, right? And
it's a very simple app to make. So uh
let's say we wanted to change up the UI
here now to test out the new things from
cloud code. So do let's make the UI
uh a dark theme. Okay. So let's run
that. So hopefully now we're just going
to edit the CSS and we're going to get a
dark team here. Okay. So you can see now
we made some changes to our styles.css
file here. So if we go back here and
refresh now you can see okay we made
some UI changes. uh but still everything
is kind of the same. Now let's take a
look at the checkpoints and version
control light. We have already edited
our code here. So what we can do now is
we can do /reind
right and now we have some options we
can go back up to let's say let's make
the UI and dark team. You can see we
have some changes here in styles.css.
We have the diff here 19 and minus 9. So
if I click here now I can choose between
restore code and conversation, restore
code and only conversation. So I want to
store code and conversation. Right?
Okay. So that should be done now. So if
we go here and refresh, you can see you
should see this should go back to the
previous setup. Perfect. So that is
something they added. This is the
checkpoints. I think this is super
helpful. This is something we had in
cursor and this is definitely going to
be something I'm going to be using. So I
would say these two changes like the
checkpoints and the usage is something
there are other few changes. Of course
the new model is a big upgrade. One more
thing before we end this is that they
updated their agent SDK. I actually
think they renamed it. So for the sub
agents hooks, background task and stuff,
we could start diving deeper into the
new agent SDK here. Uh but for this
video, we're not going to do that. You
can see the cloud code SDK has been
renamed to cloud agent SDK. So I think
we might do a video upcoming video on
that. See how we can create some agent
here using this new framework. Uh I
think there are some very interesting
stuff here like run longunning agents
and stuff. Uh, but so far I've been
pretty happy with the update to cloud
code. I would definitely go check it
out. If you're going to switch to uh
codeex or something, uh, I still think
the GP5 model is a bit sharper. Uh, but
the speed and stuff on 4.5 uh, makes it
a bit more easy to use on daily stuff
like making simple apps as we did today,
right, with this simple video generator
app. So I would rate this as of course
one of the best coding agents at the
moment alongside with codeex and a bunch
of other that it's challenging this. So
we [music] might look into those in
other episodes but yeah that was cloud
code 2.0 quick update on that on the
edge. [music] Thank you for tuning in.
Have a great day.