Let's talk about this interesting study
that I found the other day. It showed
how a super simple protocol of really
just one supplement optionally two was
able to lower leaky gut markers and
intestinal permeability significantly.
Let's break down what the researchers
did, what this supplement was, and what
it means to your gut health protocol.
Okay, so this is the study and it built
on the idea that heavy endurance
exercise, especially in hot conditions,
is known to make the gut lining more
leaky. This happens because blood is
shunted away from the intestines towards
your muscles and because the rise and
core body temperature stresses the gut
cells and damages the tight junctions
that normally keep the gut lining
sealed. So this was a controlled way to
induce leaky gut and the researchers
tested both zinc carnosine and colostrum
to mitigate the effects. Each
participant went through four different
phases. In one they got a placebo, in
one they got zinc carnosine. In another
they got bovine colostrum and in the
last they got a combination of zinc
carnosine plus colostrum. Each phase
lasted 14 days with a break in between
so the effects wouldn't carry over.
After each 14-day period, the
participants had to do a tough exercise
protocol designed to raise their core
temperature by about 2Â° C. That's enough
to trigger the kind of stress that makes
the gut more permeable. Although
researchers measured gut leakiness using
the lactolose to ramnos ratio in urine.
This is a test where you drink a
solution containing two types of sugar
and if your gut permeability increased,
more of the larger sugar, so lactolose
gets through into your bloodstream and
then shows up in your urine. So here's
what they found. When the volunteers
took the placebo, their intestinal
permeability tripled after the workout.
So their guts became much more leaky.
But when they had been taken zinc
carnosine for two weeks before the
exercise, that rise and permeability was
reduced a lot. Cholesterol also helped
about the same and both zinc carnosine
and cholesterol together were even
better and showed the biggest benefits.
To quote the paper, after 14 days of
treatment, the increase in permeability
caused by exercise was reduced by 71% in
the zinc carnosine alone arm, by 68% in
the colostrone alone arm, and by 85% in
the zinc plus colostrone arm. In the
second part of the study, the
researchers then did experiments in the
lab using intestinal cell cultures that
were exposed to heat. They found that
raising the temperature made the cells
die faster, disrupted their tight
junction proteins, and lowered the
electrical resistance of the outer
layer. So all signs of a weakened gut
barrier that were to be expected. When
they added zinc carnosine, many of these
harmful changes were reversed and it
increased the production of a protective
protein called heat shock protein 70,
which helped stabilize the tight
junctions again. Now, of course, this
was a small study and who knows if it
will even replicate in the future, but
fortunately, it isn't the only piece of
evidence that we have. Zinc carnosine
has actually been studied for decades,
originally in Japan, where it was used
as a treatment for gastric ulcers. What
the Japanese researchers noticed was
that it seemed to stick to damaged areas
of the stomach lining and promote
healing. Then, over the years, more
animal studies had shown that it had
several actions that are good for gut
health. I will talk about this in more
detail later in the video. Also, in
experiments with intestinal cell lines,
zinc carnosine was found to speed up the
migration of cells into a wounded area,
which is a key step in sealing up tight
injuries in the gut lining. It also
encouraged these cells to divide and
multiply so the lining could regenerate
faster. When animals were given certain
drugs which normally damaged the stomach
and intestines, zinc carnosine protected
the tissues and reduced the injuries.
Now all this data brings us to a very
interesting question. How exactly does
zinc carnosine do this and why not just
take a normal zinc supplement? Well the
reason is that zinc carnosine is an
entirely different type of chemical
complex where zinc is bound to the amino
acid carnosine. This chilated structure
changes how the supplement behaves in
your body. As the research showed, zinc
carsine seems to stick directly to the
gut lining, especially at damaged spots,
and then releases its zinc more slowly
right where it's needed. That local
action is very different from normal
zinc salts, which are quickly absorbed
into the bloodstream and then spread
throughout your body. So, by lingering
on the gut lining, zinc carnosine
supports the healing of the barrier
specifically. Besides that, the
carnosine part of the molecule has
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory
effects. And together they have a
stronger effect than just zinc or
carnosine alone. Also, because zinc
carnosine acts locally, it is effective
at lower doses, which means less side
effects that some people might get from
normal zinc supplements. Now, for your
leaky gut protocol, this means that next
to glutamine, zinc carnosine should be
your go-to supplement. If you're on
regular zinc already, I would probably
try switching to zinc carnosine,
especially for situations where your gut
is under a lot of stress. So, for
example, intense exercise, heavy use of
ibuprofen, or specific infections that
make the gut lining more permeable. In
terms of dosing, typical research doses
have been around 37 to 75 milligs of
zinc carnosine twice a day. So, 75
millig to 150 millig total. And this
will give you around 15 to 30 milligs of
elemental zinc. Of course, that doesn't
mean zinc carnosine is a magic pill. The
study was small and we still need a
larger clinical trials in people with
chronic gut issues just to know how well
it works in those cases. But the data is
definitely promising and because they
didn't just test zinc, but also
colostrum, I would definitely check that
out as well. Just make sure to get a
quality product since colostrum is such
a delicate substance. Also, before I end
this video, don't forget to check out
the video description for more free
resources and my programs. They will
help you if you're looking for
step-by-step systems on topics like diet
planning, detoxification, and chronic
fatigue recovery, and how to avoid the
most common mistakes that I see
beginners make all the time. For more
info, just open the description. It will
all be listed