but what caused the financial
success was not extreme
Mobility you know I have a good mind but
I I'm way short of Prodigy and I've had
results in life that are
prodigious and that came from tricks I
just learned a few basic tricks from
people like my grandfather what were
those tricks kind
of now everybody's leaning in wanting to
know
it's too late for you old
[Laughter]
guys yeah
anyway the uh
no there are all kinds of tricks that I
just got into by accident in life one I
invert all the time and when I I was a
weather forecaster when I was in the
aircore and how did I handle my new
assignment being a weather forecaster in
the aircore is a lot like being a doctor
that reads x-rays it's a pretty solitary
you're in the hanger in the middle of
the night and drawing weather maps and
you're cing Pilots but you're not
interfacing with a bunch of your fellow
men very much and so I figured out the
minute I was actually making weather
forecasts for real
Pilots I said how can I kill these
Pilots now that's not the question that
most people would ask but I want to know
what the easiest way to kill them would
be so I could avoid it and so I thought
it through in reverse that way and I
finally figured out I said there are
only two ways I'm ever going to I was in
the ferry command there only two ways
I'm going to kill pilot is I'm going to
get him into icing his plane can't
handle and that will kill him or I'm
going to get him someplace where he's
going to run out of gas before he can
land because all the airports are sucked
in and I just was fanatic about avoiding
those two hazards and if
Kobe Bryant had had somebody like me
he'd still be with
us it was so stupid to kill kill
yourself that way and but just that
basic I may have learned that from my
grandfather my grandfather would say to
him when I'm swimming he'd say swim as
long as you want but stay near the shore
well but you can laugh
but no he was a very wise man exactly
yeah
what I'm what I'm hearing you say is
that you as a discipline look at what
the risk is on the other side of the
situation and you avoid that that's one
of the rules right well it's it's just
it's it's like a lot of practical
problems in algebra if you invert you
can solve it easily and if you don't you
can't solve it easily exactly right and
so of course and I had that trick very
early and and most people say how can
you
please tell us what you do to save
India or to help India and of course I
would approach it differently I'd say
what could I do which most easily hurt
India and approaching it in reverse that
way I got better results you look at the
vulnerabilities yeah yes and and I have
a whole bag of tricks like that I been
to the ROTC both in high school and
college and the irtc taught me to fire
mortar shells or
shells one shot over one shot short and
then
kapow well I never shot any damn shells
but I've been using that metal trick all
my life that's why how I
determine what size to make something
over and under and kapow and so I just
got a bag of tricks and I got the right
bag of tricks early and of course it's
been of
enormous help to me let me give you an
example
I had a client once when I was a young
lawyer and he owned a bunch of hilly
Ranch Land on the edge of
civilization not very far from here in
Southern
California
and the Edison Company came through and
they wanted a new easement through his
land they already had some
easements and he hired the leading
appraiser in Orange County real estate
appraiser and
said
and he had the idea that he should have
$250,000 for the easement from the
Edison
Company and this leading appraiser who
was very pompous and very old and and uh
very
distinguished and he told him no I'm
sorry it's only
$125,000 value in your damn
Ranch and so he came to me and said
Charlie can you talk some sense into
this elderly
appraiser
and so I looked at his problem and
I
toally what I thought how he was doing
his own appraisal wrong I'm not a real
estate appraiser he is and what he had
done is what he was taught to do an
appraisal school he thought the problem
through in two
dimensions and he figured out from
comparable sales what the value per acre
was and he computed the acreage and he
had something a little bit on the on the
damage the easement would do to the
remaining property and so but it's all
done in two dimensions and I said to
this appraiser you got to do this in
three
dimensions you know God gave us three
dimensions and I said if they put the
utility Towers big transmission line
Towers which is why the is it's going to
freeze the grade and The Logical way to
develop your land is to Lop off the top
of the hills and put them in the valley
that's the way Hy land is developed and
they're doing enormous damage to to you
by freezing the grade and he said he
wouldn't change a damn thing so I said
to my elderly client I think you have to
fire this
twit and I will hire you an appraiser
who can think and so I got him
$600,000 which wasn't at all hard
because I was dealing with a bunch of
honest engineers at the Edison who did
think in three dimensions but again
that's so simple but you'd be surprised
how many lawyers with screw that one
up inter and and of course people like
that appraiser who didn't know his own
business very well because he didn't pay
attention to the fundamentals those
people are always with us and if you
just have the mental trick of
constantly going back to the basics it's
pretty basic Insight that are you
conscious that a geometrical problem in
a real world is three-dimensional are
you conscious of the rules or are
they're just there
well it's so habitual with yeah I
understand that and I revolve
possibilities and I rag problems hard
and if they don't yield I come
back and what what and and so this is
just a bag of tricks and it enables a
non- predigest man to get predigest
results uh remember you last summer you
bought anad Darko Big Oil Company yes
and uh you described I think you just
gotten back from being with Warren for
the weekend yeah and uh you were
describing that you didn't do all the
analytics and you didn't do all of the
research but you used your bag of tricks
and you flew out to Omaha you and Warren
spent the weekend you called up the
president of the bank America got the
money made the deal no I didn't go to
Omaha or where did you go no no I stay
we have a telephone
okay okay you
talk okay you talked to Warren about it
anyway yeah but you made it in about two
days and it was like no no okay Warren
didn't need Warr and I have been
together so long that just one grunt we
can speak a
volume and and
no it's perfectly obvious the perian
Basin is our number one oil reservoir
and we don't have another like it and
it's perfectly obvious you have a
preferred stock
that you have an advantage over
everybody else and plus an upside and so
we've done this kind of thing before too
so of course we did it and and and it's
not very difficult but you're right are
all kinds of organiz endless due
diligence
and that we knew enough to
act based on the rules and why they were
in a hurry yes but but you don't need
perfect if you're 96% sure that's all
you're entitled to in many cases and I
see these people doing this due
diligence and the weaker they are as
thinkers the more due diligence they
do and of course it's just a way of
laying an inner insecurity and of course
it doesn't work you you've got to be
able to to quickly understand how much
brains does it take to know the perian
Basin is America's best oil it's layer
after layer after layer you know we
there is no nothing like comparable yes
and if you have an 8% dividend off the
Top If from a perfectly reputable place
of very talented
people the woman who runs that is a
production engineer she's good and and
they get better results in that Shale
than other people and so it's it's a
no-brainer at least it's a no-brainer if
you don't make it hard but I see people
if you in America now they do these
leverage
buyouts and these firms do what they
call do diligence and they will send
armies of young lawyers out at high
rates per hour Riv through all the
purchasing orders at a place like
ezri don't even think about it
no I'm not thinking
about but they but they but my point is
they don't EZ wouldn't no you don't have
to look through the merching orders
right to know that EZ is a good business
and I don't think people are that
insecure mentally ought to be in
positions of decision making