this is John doerty free PT now today
I'm going to be talking about tennis
elbow and golfer's elbow so two very
common conditions um and the treatment
is very similar so just to quickly go
over the anatomy so golfer's elbow is
typically when you're going to have
medial elbow pain pain on the inside of
your elbow here and they call it
golfer's elbow because basically when
you're doing a golf swing typically that
back hand you're going to get a lot of
torque in through your elbow here so
when you're coming through and you're
swinging on your follow through you get
a lot of torque through that elbow
causes strain through the tendons there
and that's what caus this pain um tennis
elbow the opposite is basically um it's
named that way for when you're doing a
backand in tennis and when your wrist is
coming this way basically you're going
to put a lot of strain through the
extensor tendons on your forearm and
that's what leads to the irritation and
um the pain that you're having on the
outside of the elbow
so typically um these injuries are
tendonitis or tendonosis the treatment
is similar most of the time as far as
exercise is concerned um the exercise is
going to be the same for both of
them first for golfer's
elbow all of the muscles of your forearm
your forearm flexors here on this side
of your forearm are the muscles that are
going to help to bend your fingers this
way and also bend your wrist up towards
you all of these muscles come and they
insert at a common flexor tendon right
here at the medial
epicondyle here on your elbow you have
one common tendon that leads to a number
of different muscles that go down into
your forearm and into your hand so when
you have overuse you start to get strain
irritation on that tendon causes pain so
the primary exercise we want to do for
this is going to be an Ecentric wrist
curl
so a typical wrist curl is going to be
when you just have a weight a dumbbell
you're going to curl up and then back
down an Ecentric wrist curl is where we
want to focus only on the down portion
the Ecentric portion when you're going
up this is called the concentric when
you're going down that's the Ecentric so
what you want to do to isolate the
Ecentric is going to take your left hand
lift it up bring it up to that fully
flexed position and and then slowly go
down a real slow five count on the way
down so three four five and then on the
way back up use your left hand the right
hand is passive during this the left
hand's doing all the work and then
slowly back down one two all the way
down to five back down so three sets of
10 very slow on that Ecentric portion at
least 5 seconds and on the concentric
make sure you're not actively flexing
the risk that the opposite hand is doing
all the work likewise for your extensors
which is going to be when you're caused
by tennis elbow what we call tennis
elbow caused by overuse of the extensor
side of the forearm the treatment is
going to be the same and just like on
the flexor side it's the exact same
situation the muscles that go down into
your fingers to extend your fingers up
and extend your wrist up this way all
come through the forearm and insert at a
common extensor tendon here that's why
it's irritated in the same way the
mechanism of injury is similar typically
overuse and the treatment is going to be
similar as well so just like we did on
the other side now we're going to flip
it over and do it the other way so again
you're not going to do the concentric
portion so you're going to use your
opposite hand to lift the wrist up and
then slowly down at least the five count
nice and slow on on the way
down take your hand lift it back up real
slow five count on the way down when
performing these exercises you should
have no increase in pain so if you're
already in pain say if you have a
constant pain level of a five or a six
then you if your pain stays a five or
six or a slight very slight increase
maybe up one point is okay um if you're
having increased pain to nine nine out
of 10 eight out of 10 then um you're
either doing the exercise incorrectly or
this isn't the correct exercise for you
so I want you to try out these exercises
if you're having medial elbow pain it's
going to be
the uh Ecentric wrist curl if you're
having lateral elbow pain it's going to
be the Ecentric wrist extension going
down this way three sets of 10 of each
and uh and we'll see how that does for
you