You are in a 5-year race to accumulate
as much Bitcoin as you can. There will
never be another 5 years like the 5
years ahead. The fastest shift the world
has ever seen. I would categorize where
we are today as the Wall Street uh
attack phase. People underestimate what
Wall Street is willing to do to take
your Bitcoin. Wall Street is going to do
what they did in 2021 Celsius. That was
the beta test. I know people love
Michael Sailor. Once you are a public
company, you are an asset of Wall
Street. And that is the attack. And most
people are falling for it. The US is in
a major issue with its debt right now.
And Black Rockck got all of its clients
some Bitcoin. They're preparing for this
managed transition. The universal basic
income, Elon social credit score,
Palanteer's artificial intelligence
technology. That is the future. They are
managing right now. You've got a choice.
Which side of that are you going to be
before it's too late?
>> Argie,
>> Simon Dixon, welcome.
>> Thanks for having me. It's been a while
since I've uh come back to uh London and
it's a pretty pivotal moment. So glad to
be here.
>> It's a pleasure to have you. Um last
time we spoke was I think we interviewed
on spaces in the depths of the bare
market and you gave us a a really uh
thorough uh understanding and and recap
of the history of Bitcoin particularly
with all the catastrophes that were
going on in the bare market. and uh and
there's certainly been many in the
history of Bitcoin as well. So, it's
really good to actually catch up in much
better times cuz that was in that was
quite a dark mood um in Bitcoin uh when
everything was just collapsing and
nobody knew where uh where it would end.
Um but like I said, we're in much
happier times right now. So, I wanted to
throw it over to you with the context of
uh your history in Bitcoin of almost
more than 10 years.
How do you see where we're at now? Where
is Bitcoin right now?
>> Yeah, well, it's uh yeah, 14 years on
this journey. So, um I spoke at the
first Bitcoin conference in Prague. Uh
that was in 2011.
Um and I wrote the first published book
in the world to include Bitcoin. Uh that
was Bank to the Future, Protect Your
Future Before Governments Go Bust. Um
and uh it's actually uh very surreal to
see where we are today. Um, but I think
I would categorize where we are today as
the Wall Street uh attack phase. Um, and
so the entire history of Bitcoin has
just really been about countering
attacks. Um, and being involved in this
anti-fragile network that is now over $2
trillion.
Um, and when we first, you know, when I
first spoke at the that first Bitcoin
conference in Prague, um, it was us
versus the banks and, uh, you know,
about 50 to 100 people in a room, a very
small community,
um, and to see where we are today where
the largest power structures in the
world, uh, whether it be, you know, the
IMF, uh, the Federal Reserve, the Trump
administration, El Salvador,
um and just every single power structure
in the world has now adjusted to this
Bitcoin and seeing where it's come has
just been this remarkable journey that
uh quite frankly throughout the whole
journey you kind of always as a
Bitcoiner I've been advocating for it
for 14 years and always believed that it
would become something amazing but it
still shocks you when it actually
happens. it still surprises you even if
you're thinking that this could happen
when it actually happens it's um you
know and quite frankly I think it's a
lifeboat um and then I think in in this
massive amount of craziness and
turbulence that we have globally right
now uh just to be able to say that there
is an exit um there is something that
you know you can you can opt out there's
something you can boycott and Bitcoin is
that boycott Bitcoin is that opt out.
Bitcoin um is uh you know that to be
able to give somebody something that
they can do when the world is going
crazy quite frankly.
>> Looking for a secure, trusted way to
buy, sell, and hold Bitcoin. Gemini has
been leading the way since 2014. Founded
by the Winklevoss twins to be a security
first, fully regulated Bitcoin platform.
With Gemini, your Bitcoin is protected
with enterprisegrade security backed by
insurance and type two certifications
for sock 1 and sock 2. Whether you're
new to Bitcoin or a longtime hodler,
Gemini gives you the tools to stack SATs
and build generational wealth your way.
From simple one-tap buys to advanced
charts and trading features, it's all
here. Buy, sell, and hold securely.
That's Gemini. Gemini, Bitcoin with
confidence. Need cash without selling
your Bitcoin? With Debify, you borrow
against your Bitcoin. Non-custodial,
multi-IG escrow, and you keep your keys.
No banks, no selling, just
institutional-grade liquidity with terms
up to 2 years and APRs as low as 9%. All
transactions assigned using private keys
on your own device. Using a three or
four multisig setup, three out of four
keys must approve every transaction,
giving you control, transparency, and
peace of mind. Whether you're a hodler,
miner, small business, or treasury team,
Debify gives you the cash you need now
without giving up your Bitcoin upside or
triggering a taxable event. Get
liquidity, keep exposure, and stay
secure. That's Debify. Debify, your
Bitcoin, your money. So even from the
very earliest days we had um you know
Bitcoin revolutionary like Hal Finny was
talking about the potential uh need for
Bitcoin banks and yet we have
certain sections of the Bitcoin
community lamenting the fact that Wall
Street and Treadfire have sort of come
on board and it's starting to look the
way that you know the early Bitcoiners
always envisioned Bitcoin becoming. What
do you say about the dichotomy of the
early Bitcoiners versus the Puritans who
are kind of lamenting what's happening
right now?
>> Yeah, so I think we've hit a two-tier
Bitcoin world. Um, and in there is
Bitcoin in Wall Street in custody,
whether it be a Bitcoin treasury
company, whether it be somebody, you
know, handing over their Bitcoin in
order to borrow against their Bitcoin.
Um, whether it be, uh, you know, any any
type of rapper into an ETF. Um, and then
there's Bitcoin and self-custody. Um,
and I think that uh people underestimate
what Wall Street is willing to do to
take your Bitcoin uh get your Bitcoin.
And I think everyone's going to go
through some really hard lessons of a
real coordinated engineered
um process in order to teach people that
they should own Bitcoin in self-custody.
Uh then you got Bitcoin in self-custody.
And Bitcoin is money you can own, money
you can spend, and money that has a
fixed supply with a monetary policy that
nobody can change. Uh my fear is that
most people in Bitcoin come in for the
number go up technology and until they
go through a disaster, then they realize
that the money you can own and money you
can spend is the real utility. So people
often, you know, I I debated the peter
shifts and various people over the year
and, you know, they pull out the old
argument that Bitcoin has no utility.
you know what what is the utility of it?
Well, gold can be used for dentistry and
jewelry. Um, but I've always maintained
that the utility of Bitcoin is
self-custody.
That to be able to escape any country in
the world, take your value with you, uh,
and to be able to do that at scale and
have money you can own in a, you know, a
the banking system is guilty until prove
innocent. Today it's a mass surveillance
Orwellian nightmare today. You know, my
money at a bank if I try and spend it, I
know that I've got a very small slim
chance that they would just process the
payment. And I know most people they
they they're used to very small
payments, but when you start having
money at a bank and you're trying to
send it in the international system, you
know, I I'm I don't expect it to go
through. Um, some of my payments in, you
know, when you're dealing with money
that came from Bitcoin that's going
through international banking, it can
take up to, I've had payments that can
take up to 6 months to clear, you know,
uh, just trying to get fiat currency
through the system that gets lost in the
Swift system. Um, and it's an absolute
nightmare. Like banking is getting worse
and worse and worse. It's not getting
better. Um and uh you know that's what
uh this the the banking system you know
in this guilty until proven innocent and
then to be able to send transactions in
an innocent until proven guilty system
um is things that people won't learn
until they have to actually learn it in
in most cases.
>> You you mentioned um that people don't
really appreciate Bitcoin until they
experience some kind of catastrophe. And
very briefly, you you touched on the
debanking or the freezing of funds. What
are the other catastrophes that bring
into light and sharp focus Bitcoin's
virtues and properties?
Uh there are so many. Um anybody that's
uh left Bitcoin on an exchange and
received a Bitcoin IOU, they understand
that a Bitcoin IOU is the same as a
banking system. Um, and when that
exchange goes, uh, you you you realize
the importance of the ability to be able
to self custody. Um, in an environment
where governments are changing, you
know, I've I've witnessed, um, I left
the UK 10 years ago, um, but I've
witnessed the UK turn into, you know, a
deeper and deeper surveillance state.
We're now having, uh, digital ID, you
know, which will probably be integrated
with Palunteer. um artificial
intelligence
that is definitely headed towards a
central bank digital currency or maybe
you get a stable coin along the way. Um
when we start to see what the plan for
money is uh which is unfolding right in
front of us, you know, which is a
digital programmable social credit score
that uh you are if you don't opt in or
you don't configure to uh how a
government or a corporation wants you to
behave and spend uh then we're we're
definitely moving towards that money
being a financial weapon of mass
destruction and a tool for surveillance
um and a tool for um a police state. You
know, that is what fiat currency's end
inevitable goal is. And the reason is is
because it's a Ponzi scheme and it's a
debt based Ponzi scheme where the money
to pay the interest on debt and all all
money all fiat currency is created as a
debt. the money doesn't exist. And so
the end result of that is that you need
to get the government deeper into debt,
individuals deeper into debt,
corporations
um leverage debt in order to end up with
more and more assets and more and more
wealth inequality.
Uh and that takes you to an environment
at the end of a debt cycle where the
governments recognize that um there's so
much um disparity between the wealthy
that have played the debt markets well
and the people that have gone on the
wrong side of the debt markets i.e.
they're consuming um they have 30 to 40%
interest on credit cards uh and they're
living monthtomonth. That that disparity
creates an environment of civil unrest,
an environment of desperation
um that eventually can only be fixed by
a 1984 Orwellian nightmare and turning
fiat currency into that. Uh and so that
is the future of fiat currency. It's
inevitable, predictable, it's
guaranteed.
Um and so the wealthy know how to exit
that. They've already accumulated their
assets. They had gold, now they have
Bitcoin. Uh and uh sadly not enough
people um are going to understand that.
And so the world is going to give us
when you see the end game for what fiat
currency is in this digital uh world
that that we're going uh people are
going to understand why they need the
ability to own their own money, spend
their own money and and have a fixed
supply that doesn't inflate away like an
ice cube. So there's almost a double dip
in um first of all your money is debased
through inflation money printing but
then they force you to keep it within
the system and by using the system
itself you incur these transaction fees
over and over again that again debases
your money. It well it diminishes your
your purchasing power because you're
having to spend money to transact every
time. Whereas with Bitcoin as we know
it, it's it's much cheaper to send
almost limitless amounts of value uh
right around the world.
>> Yeah. And you know the the whole concept
of a number go up technology, you know,
is why most people will end up with a
Bitcoin ETF or you know something that
in an environment where stocks are being
manipulated and the they're always
issuing more. um in an environment where
government credit ratings are putting
more and more questionable even at the
from the empire down to the uh third
world emerging market. It looks like
those two are looking very similar right
now. the tactics that the Trump
administration are using right now, you
know, fiscal dominance in order to
devalue the dollar, devalue the debt,
um, and all the different ways that you
can escape, you know, it's uh, Bitcoin
with this fixed supply is uh, just
something you can predict. Once you
understand how Bitcoin functions, it's a
lot easier to understand than the rest
of the world, quite frankly. Um, and you
know, when we enter into this world
where assets are going up not because
they're more valuable,
they're going up because the the dollar
is being devalued and every other fiat
currency is a derivative of a dollar,
which suffers much much worse
consequence because all these other fiat
currencies
are just a mechanism for sucking up the
world into dollar debt. Um, and you have
these these dollars and all these
derivatives on top of it that that are,
if you save in them, you're, you know,
the
which the average person is doing. um
you're driven into this just this wild
debt based Ponzi scheme with the the the
dollar at the at the base level and now
the base level is uh devaluing itself
and
um in a debt based Ponzi scheme that is
really reaching that that end cycle uh
and people need Bitcoin for that uh to
be able to escape that. Uh but then the
other side of it is also the
surveillance side and what what they can
do when they when you custody your money
with somebody else. And I think people
are going to be surprised what what
comes and how they try and fix this
system,
you know, and uh and and I think that
draws a very clear line between
essentially Bitcoin and everything else
that came from it. the crypto markets,
the crypto markets are going to be
exposed for what they actually are, uh,
which is in the end a venture capital
pre-min fiat currency pump and dump
scheme that will create the surveillance
technology through stable coins and all
these other mechanisms
um, in order to uh, create a nightmare
of the fiat currency system. And all of
that crypto stuff is going to be
consolidated into Wall Street uh through
these financialization, securitization,
tokenization.
Uh and Wall Street is getting to fully
capitalize upon, you know, this this
crypto side and and the distinction
between Bitcoin in custody, Bitcoin and
self custody, and all the other crypto
stuff. uh over the next 10 years. If you
don't figure that out, um and I think
we've got less than 10 years. If you
haven't figured that out probably over
the next five years, you're going to end
up in a universal basic income
surveillance state or well in get the
vaccine or you will get negative
interest rates type of nightmare. Um or
you're going to be in this tiny
percentage. And sadly, I think the
people that end up with Bitcoin and
self-custody are going to be the new,
you know, conspiracy theory mega class
of people that people will create all
these conspiracy theories around how
they ended up with so much Bitcoin. Um,
and you you've got a choice. You're
going to be on which side of that are
you going to be? And my prediction is
that anyone that does it through Wall
Street, through ETFs, through pensions,
through Bitcoin back loans, any of those
things, um, Wall Street is going to do
what they did in 2021.
You know, they're going to create an
elaborate scheme in order to end up with
your Bitcoin in their wallet that they
control. Um, and so the self-custody
stuff is ultra ultra important for
people to figure out now um, before it's
too late. So you you mentioned IUS as
being one of the catastrophes that could
uh awaken people from from the slumber
of not holding their own Bitcoin.
Um a lot of people are being critical of
ETFs as being representative of paper
Bitcoin so to speak. But don't you think
there is a place for Bitcoin ETFs for a
certain type of investor also? Um the
tragedy of this is is that Wall Street
through its
ability to control through lobby
governments, they've created an
environment where the obvious and
logical thing to do is own your assets
with them. And that's by design. The
complexity of the financial market, the
the innovation of ETFs,
uh was a mechanism for taking as much
control as possible. And so we've ended
up in a world where BlackRock
essentially is on the board of 20,000
companies that has the largest
shareholding in almost all those
companies. Um has technology that
advises Treasury
um has technology that um is used by the
Federal Reserve.
>> You're talking about their um Mellin
model that advises something like tens
of trillions of dollars around the
world.
>> Yeah, absolutely. There's a technology
called Aladdin.
um that they've always used.
>> Um and every asset manager and fund
manager at scale also uses the same
technology.
And so we have essentially recreated in
a shadow way
um a what I call, you know, I I I I I
term the name from proof of work, proof
of weapons, uh because it weaponizes all
of these different companies and all of
these different technologies and all of
these different military, all this
different stuff. Um and uh Black Rockck
is essentially I think the Dutch East
India Company
uh we you know of the Dutch Empire and
the British East India Company of the
British Empire. Uh Black Rockck today is
the American
version of the East India Company. It is
it is more powerful than the US
government. it is uh controls the
European Union
um to a very you know strong degree and
through its ability to decide who gets
to borrow in capital markets and
manipulate share prices way out of any
kind of reality
um you know we have created this shadow
uh government called BlackRock that
represents corporate interest
um and we're giving them our Bitcoin uh
And some people are giving them m their
bitcoin. Why? Uh because the tax system
was designed where it's tax efficient to
put it via your pension contribution.
And what was a pension? A pension was a
mechanism for saying give all your money
to Black Rockck and the asset managers
and we'll manage it for you and we'll
take your voting rights from your shares
and we'll install our board members. Um
and so through this tax efficiency plus
individuals thinking about how do I
handle um inheritance
um and this vast empire of money
managers that all get fees out of every
transaction that all gets their you know
annual fees. Um we have essentially
given them the asset managers full
control to the point where all of the
universities and colleges are the
largest endowment funds in the world.
All of our pension is being um sent to
BlackRock every single month. Um all of
our insurance premiums are being sent to
these large asset managers. Um and every
mechanism for pulling all of this money
into this one power vacuum that now can
pay for any politician that can buy any
president through their shares in
military companies control the quote
unquote deep state, you know, the
intelligence.
Um and they can manage a portfolio
in order to maximize all of these
different governments that they have
bought over time into this massive you
know power structure that is way bigger
than any government and no governments
work for the people in their country
anymore across the collective west. And
so by making these vacuums
you know in 2021 I believe operation
choke point 2.0 you know, was an
operation
in order to uh make the industry look
bad.
Uh end up with a bunch of Bitcoin on
banks balance sheets. Uh play this type
of chess game and then approve the
Bitcoin ETF in order to get as much
Bitcoin ETF. Um as many people to, you
know, have Bitcoin exposure via Black
Rockck and in custody. um then launch
Bitcoin back loans
um so that they can persuade as many
people to borrow against their Bitcoin
to issue more fiat currency and issue
Bitcoin treasury companies so that when
they need to do any type of distress
takeover of all of these Bitcoin
treasury companies, they can consolidate
all of this Bitcoin into one honeypot.
um and they can use Bitcoin that they've
got and that they they managed to use
the leverage of fiat currency
um in order to rage currency wars around
the world and the only people that would
be protected from that are the people
that have Bitcoin in self-custody. I'm
interested in why you think um the
approval of Bitcoin ETFs was connected
to Operation Chokepoint 2.0 know because
Grayscale had to go to court to get a
decision that overturned the SEC's
ruling which eventually led to the
approval of Bitcoin ETFs. So it seems it
would seem to me that if they were
connected, Grayscale wouldn't have had
to fight tooth and nail to get that
decision to overturn the SEC.
>> Yeah. So you have to you have to take a
few leaps and you have to put a few
things together and there are things
that we will never know cuz I've you
know I study these uh different
intelligence operations um over time
look back at declassified documents
um tried to put that together with
future red herrings and you you never
get the full truth. Um, but what I do
know is that there was definitely a
coordinated effort and I was involved in
one chapter 11 bankruptcy uh because I
decided and thought it would be a good
idea to take a small percentage of my
Bitcoin and borrow against it and test
it out. Um, and I ended up using Celsius
uh because uh I'm an investor in over
100 different companies in the industry.
I wanted to see if this borrow against
your Bitcoin industry was a thing. Uh so
I went and met all the different
providers, see if I could invest.
Interestingly, Galaxy um took our
allocation in BlockFi, so I got
protected from that one. Uh but we ended
up with a a shareholding in Celsius and
I decided to test out the service and um
and uh from that process of uh seeing
Celsius go into bankruptcy, I I spent
cuz I'm a bit of a geek, I spent two
years in that bankruptcy where I was
actually lobbying the judge. Uh we
managed to persuade the judge to not
sell the Bitcoin. It was the first
bankruptcy other than Mount Gaus or the
first US bankruptcy uh where we managed
to get them not to sell the Bitcoin
which ended up being the pivotal
decision um in the case and uh I read
4,000 different documents and engaged in
every single part of the process um
including putting together plans um
understanding how the entire process
worked, investing a lot of money in
legal fees and because I understood
every single part of that bankruptcy, I
found absolute foul play um in the
Celsius bankruptcy that connected it to
a much much deeper agenda uh than than
the normal agenda. And to give you a few
ideas,
um you know, you can the deep state as I
call it um consists of CIA, MSAD, these
different intelligence agencies.
uh and there was a deep connection
between those players that were involved
in Celsius. Some of the hacks um I'll
give you a small example. Uh one of the
hacks that happened that led to the loss
of client ETH uh was done via a company
called Banka. Uh when you look at Bangor
Dao and then you connect it to the um
the different players uh you had Alex
Majinski uh who was the CEO
um you know he's he's got a background
in terms of his connections in Israel.
Um you had uh Daniel Leon who didn't end
up going to prison. Alex Mashinsky got
12 years. Daniel Leon didn't go to
prison. uh he escaped to Israel and he's
now doing a startup an AI startup with
the prime minister's office of Israel.
Um his wife who is now head of social
media for the Israeli Defense Force um
who put out the propaganda
uh that led to uh the arrest of um the
the fall of the United Nations
Palestinian division. Um she was head of
loans.
Um, and the company that got hacked, one
of them, there was multiple of them,
Bankal, the largest shareholders, uh,
was the niece and nephew of the prime
minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu.
And so when you went deep into all of
these different cases,
um, you realize that the net result was
that there was this multi-billion dollar
Ponzi scheme,
uh, that made the industry look really,
really bad, led to 650,000 victims. Um,
because I was working with many, many of
those victims to try and help them
deconstruct what was happening, I ended
up the seventh largest creditor in the
case.
Um the we we had people that lost their
life, took their life because they
couldn't handle um what happened to
them. They couldn't face their family to
tell them we've lost everything. Uh
Majinsky persuaded them to drain out all
of their retirement funds, all of their
401ks.
Uh put it into this um this Ponzi
scheme. Um
and uh you know that's just one case
that I that I looked at and I can see
deep connections to you know deep state
actors and operations
did spent a bit of time on FTX. There's
lots of questions there. Uh and you can
go around this circle but what really
happened was um you had operation choke
point 2.0 know you had the crypto
friendly banks that were connected to
many of these companies like FTX.
Uh there those banks were wiped out by
FDIC and some of them still to this day
say that we didn't need to be wiped out
or taken over by FDIC.
Um, we had the regulator. Um,
>> just to clarify, the FDIC is a US
government regulator
which is accused of wiping out a bank
that was solvent.
>> Yeah.
>> Why would they do that? uh because they
wanted to take over uh well I allegedly
I'd say that they wanted to take over
the banks that were connected to having
247 clearing system between what I think
these suspicious operations like FTX
were and so if you look at the banks
that were allowing for the 24/7
transactions between the hedge fund
Alama Research run by S started by Sam
Bankman Freed and FTX the exchange that
was started by Sang Bankman Freed. Um it
was these banks that were allowing for
funds to clear um in the fiat currency
rails uh between the hedge fund and the
exchange. Um, and then you had these
elaborate [ __ ] coins that were launched,
pre-mined coins, and you put together
this cocktail mix of financial weapons
of mass destruction,
uh, that allow you to manipulate markets
and, uh, once you do a hack in Celsius,
a part of the balance sheet is missing.
Um, and it created this very elaborate,
you know, cryptoindustrial complex,
whatever you want to call it. Um,
and the end result was that the bunch of
that the crypto friendly banks were
wiped out even though some of them
claimed they were solvent. Um, you had
the industry looking in really really
bad. Um, you had a regulator that
wouldn't meet anyone in our industry.
I'm I'm shareholders in companies, you
know, I was an early investor in
Coinbase, Kraken, Bitfinex,
um, Circle, Blockchain.com.
Uh, all of these companies wanted to
meet with regulators to put together
their strategy. None of them could get a
meeting. The only person that could get
a meeting with Gary Gendler, uh, was Sam
Bankman Freed.
And at the same time, you have, you
know, now only only now you have people
like Jerome Powell coming out and
saying, "Yeah, we probably should look
at this Operation Checkpoint 2.0. We
should look at the Fed policies." But
what was the net outcome? The net
outcome was you ended up with the Trump
administration with a pro- crypto
policy,
which is building this Orwellian stable
coin nightmare.
Um, you know, I believe in a wolf in
sheep's closing using Bitcoin strategic
reserves as a as a narrative that got us
all that got people on board to this.
Um, you ended up with Black Rockck ETF
approved.
Um, you ended up with banks able to put
Bitcoin on their balance sheet and lever
them up. Um, you ended up with companies
like Caner Fitzgerald.
um being able to offer fiat currency
loans and they are a primary dealer
direct into the Federal Reserve in order
to leverage the debt. You ended up with
the Trump administration creating this
whole stable coin ecosystem.
Uh and you ended up with all of the
tools for Wall Street to persuade as
many people to own their Bitcoin with
them, get as much Bitcoin as possible.
all these Bitcoin treasury companies,
you know, once you are a public I know
people love Michael Sailor. Uh the way
that this scheme works is that once you
are a public company, you are an asset
of Wall Street. You know, if you've
taken billions and billions and billions
of dollars from financial terrorists
that invest in corporate bonds, you are
owned by them. You are an asset of them.
That's how it works. If you are a CEO,
you work for the board. If you're a
board, you work for the shareholders.
Who are the shareholders? Black Rockck,
you know, um what about all the Bitcoin
mining companies? You ended up with all
of these mining companies over in Texas.
Uh they all went public. So now you've
created essentially the function to take
a massive chunk of the Bitcoin ecosystem
and control it within the confines of
Wall Street. Uh and that is the attack
and most people are falling for it
because it's tax efficient. Uh they they
can't be bothered to figure out self
custody and inheritance.
um they're idol worshipping these new
Bitcoin massacres,
you know, that uh that articulate
Bitcoin very well to Wall Street. Uh and
everyone's excited cuz the number goes
up, not knowing that anybody that falls
for this will eventually, just like in
2021, operation choke point 2.0, Hey,
you know that was, I believe, a an
operation to replace these companies
with Wall Street, hand over the industry
to Wall Street as much as possible, uh,
and then create a pro- crypto
environment to persuade as many people
to own their Bitcoin and with them and
and crypto is the tool, fiat is the
weapon. Um, and and many many people are
falling for it.
uh and now they've got all the tools
they need and I think they'll push
through into a bull cycle and I think it
it really goes into the wider macro
issues of the US government debt, fiat
currency and the wider geopolitical
issues as well because this is entering
into the currency war stage now. Uh so
Bitcoin is going to be placed at the
very very center of a future and
upcoming currency war because the the
geopolitics are resetting the world. The
US is in a macro
you know um
you know major major issue with its debt
right now. Uh and Black Rockck got all
of its clients some Bitcoin.
uh they're preparing for this managed
transition and and a lot of people are
giving their bitcoin to black rockck so
they are empowering black rockck rather
than empowering themselves
>> so I'm quite sympathetic to the idea
that leverage in a system creates um
instability but um what we saw in last
cycle with leverage that had you know
margin calls baked into the contracts
are quite different to the circumstances
and the conditions under which a company
like Micro Strategy or Strategy is
borrowing and in some cases they're like
perpetual preferred well and truly in
the driver's seat versus the conditions
we saw around a lot of the debt that
typically you know traders were taking,
hedge funds were taking and the
rehyperation of assets as well. I mean I
see that as being night and day
difference particularly with the
long-term and perpetual duration of what
strategy is issuing compared to what
hedge funds were dabbling with which was
essentially you know just a tinder box
waiting for a spark and and we
eventually got that. So can you just
compare the two and perhaps illuminate
why I'm missing that angle and and
likening one with the other with respect
to instability in the system because I I
don't see that yet.
>> Yeah. So if you look at strategy in
isolation uh then you see a company that
looks relatively safe. Um you know it
started with the Bitcoin strategic
reserve strategy.
It then enters into it's about to
approach the point where it's in the S&P
500. Once it's in the S&P 500, it then
gets included in in ETF and index funds.
Once you're in index funds, you get to
reallocate everybody's pension over to
the fund managers and you end up the
largest shareholder. Once you're the
largest shareholder like Black Rockck,
you then get a board seat. And once you
get a board seat, you have you are a
weapon. Micro Strategy is a weapon for
the proof of weapons network which is
their Bitcoin holding company. You then
introduce slowly over time more leverage
products i.e. you commit to dividends in
fiat currency.
Um now we're nowhere near the point
where this is distressed but we've had
it go from three and a half times you
know the the value of the Bitcoin to
approximately one and a half times the
value of the Bitcoin. Now that looks a
bit more like JP Morgan, you know, one
and a half times their book value of
their deposits and client assets. Um, so
it looks more like a bank in terms of
its valuation.
Um, it has fiat currency commitments and
the ability to continually roll those
over time and its creditors are, you
know, the largest asset managers in Wall
Street through these different debt
instruments.
Now you have the strategy as the base.
Then you build around it a financial
industrial complex which involves stable
coins. So issuing stable coin loans from
people that put their Bitcoin ETF or
their Bitcoin around it. Uh you also
have um Bitcoin treasury companies that
can trade at a discount. We just had
Nakamoto crash 96% from its original uh
you know its high uh 50% in one day.
um Wall Street are masters of leveraging
fiat currency in order to do leverage
buyouts and so they can borrow in order
to acquire these companies and roll them
into
um you know roll them into other
different
so you've you've got this pipeline that
Wall Street always builds up um and it's
when you combine all of these different
products together and then you introduce
the ability to borrow against your
Bitcoin
that you can then do this margin process
and maybe strategy is the chosen one
that ends up with all the bitcoin.
Um but black rockck will be the largest
shareholder in strategy. Uh and now
you've got this elaborate pool to end up
with a million, two million bitcoins all
held and that becomes Black Rockck's uh
strategy and they will have their own
mutual funds that will also get
exposure. They'll also become
shareholders in all the different
Bitcoin miners. Um and uh they'll also
potentially, you know, goes into the
debates right now. People are discussing
whether core or not have been
compromised. They're both making
accusations at each other to
implementations of, you know, soft uh
software for Bitcoin. Uh believe me,
Black Rockck will play in those games if
they can. Um they will try and use their
bribery networks or whatever in order to
try and compromise, which is why
competition is so important there. So,
I'm not saying they're going to succeed,
uh, but they are building
um a a complex and it will become a tool
for the Wall Street side of Bitcoin and
Strategy is most likely the one that
will be able to consolidate it. People
talk about the government potentially
nationalizing strategy to end up with
some Bitcoin. Um, the government's not
in charge. Corporate power is in charge.
you know, this is how Black Rockck
controls
most of the companies. Um, and when I
say Black Rockck, it's a it's an
elaborate is Black Rockck, it's State
Street, it's Vanguard, it's JP Morgan,
it's a it's a financial industrial
complex. You know, the the Goldman
Sachs, they they create the weapons.
Um, the the JP Morgans, they issue the
debt that determines how they have
control over all the executives. Because
if you don't play their game, you don't
get access to that that junk bond debt
or that corporate debt and you have the
asset manager that's able to redirect
the flow of capital because everyone's
given them their money. When you put
those players together, uh you have a
network that is able to engineer rates
at the Federal Reserve. People think
that like Jerome Powell is in charge of
the Fed. Jerome Powell is a frontman. Uh
the Federal Reserve is owned by 12
regional banks and those 12 regional
banks are owned by the private
commercial banks, the financial
industrial complex. They meet every
quarter and tell Jerome Powell what they
need to do. Jerome Powell is a frontman.
He's a pati for the banks. What about
Trump? Trump was paid for by the
financial industrial complex. his his uh
his number one donors was Elon Musk, the
technical industrial complex building
these uh deep state tools, these social
credit scores uh you know with companies
that were funded by the CIA venture
capital arm that get military ministry
of defense, you know, they get
department of defense technology
to play with as long as they give a
backdoor to the intelligence agencies
and they get to play these, you know,
celebrity entrepreneurs while they're
essentially building this different
technology. He's also fun Trump was also
the largest funer was the Bank of New
York Melon family, a key player in the
financial industrial complex um and also
um Mariam Adleston, an Israel first
lobby group. So that's what Trump is.
Who is he? He he works for the financial
industrial complex. So if you got the
Trump administration which is
negotiating all of these deals for the
banks,
Jerome Powell that answers to the banks
and the financial industrial complex
which sits on top that is also deciding
which of these companies gain access to
the debt capital markets and they
control the Federal Reserve and they
control fiscal policy and Treasury. uh
you've got this, you know, the these
companies that are able to engineer
um a pump and dump in Bitcoin
and all you need to do to protect
yourself when that event happens is own
Bitcoin and self custody and understand
what's coming. Uh because when they want
to crash Bitcoin to get your Bitcoin to
trigger all the margin calls in Caner
Fitzgerald and they've got a bunch of
managed Bitcoin and they got the the the
number one shareholder in strategy. They
can combine this financial industrial
complex in order to what they can't do
is manipulate the long-term price. The
fixed supply is the fixed supply. We're
seeing that with gold right now. But
they can do elaborate schemes to steal
your Bitcoin. Put a bunch of companies
in chapter 11. Uh end up dollarizing the
Bitcoin like happened in most of the
bankruptcies
doing a leverage buyout where they lend
to one player in order to acquire
others. And it looks like strategy might
be that end player for Black Rockck's
Bitcoin division.
um you know for the Bitcoin that they
actually control and uh and and this is
not a reflection on Michael Sailor. This
is anybody anybody that has a public
company that needs access to the debt
capital markets in order to pump the
price. They are a tool for the financial
industrial complex. There is no
independence there. if what you're
saying plays out, what is how can we
identify the inflection point and what
are some potential catalysts for that?
>> I don't think we'll know. Um, but
they're going to want to build up as
much leverage as possible. I think when
more and more people are borrowing
against their Bitcoin, you know, that's
the optimum thing that they're trying to
build up. Um, so I I I I keep an eye on
Caner Fitzgerald. I keep an eye on World
Liberty Financial. I keep an eye on
what's happening with the stable coins.
Um, I keep an eye on Palunteer and the
you know the the manipulations that are
happening through artificial
intelligence. I keep an eye on all of
that. Um, and you know, and then if you
think about what was the trigger of
2021,
well, it was the macro and geopolitical
environment that all kind of triggered
together. you you know you had the the
inflation is transitory.
Uh you had the escalation of the
Ukrainian and Russian war that led to
spike in oil prices. Uh that led to an
inflationary cycle that led to
manipulation of rates. We've seen the
Federal Reserve ever since 1913 engage
in probably 20 of these pump and dump
cycles. Like you can find them like just
look through the whole history of the
Federal Reserve. 20 pump and dump cycles
that they've that they've done in order
to end up with where Wall Street and the
wealthy control 90% of the stock market
to 10% of the network
um you know so when when you're at the
maximum leverage point
um and you're at the you know the point
where Bitcoin needs to be weaponized in
a geopolitical play i.e. At some point
this network is going to dump America
and the dollar. Uh at the moment they
they make a lot of money out of
controlling the dollar. Eventually the
dollar is going to be useless to them
and they want to change they want to
reset the chessboard
and really transition us deeply into
this multipolar world. uh and they'll be
utilizing both I think Bitcoin as a
negotiation and foreign currencies to
price other products. You'll see oil
being priced, you know, it used to be
the petro dollar used to be 100%
dollars. Now it's 70%. If that starts
coming down to 50%, you're you're
seeing, you know, this this resetting of
the chessboard.
Um and I think you're seeing right now
the collective west moving into civil
unrest.
uh because they know that they need to
move this to, you know, a command and
control state. Um the the tactics of
this network that have historically been
done on the global south, on Asia, on
the Middle East, they're coming home
now. That's that's really clear. Uh
because the dollar doesn't have as much
influence with the rise of China and
various other things. So the
geopolitics, then you get the macro, and
the macro is what what's happening right
now. Well, Trump is doing fiscal
dominance as a strategy. Fiscal
dominance means that they are increasing
the the debt and they are inflating away
the debt and they're going to create an
ultra ultrain inflationary cycle. So,
the v the price of everything's going to
go up. You know, tariffs were a tax on
the American corporation. Um inflation,
you know, when they put their prices up,
that's a tax on the American consumer.
So they make it look like they're doing
something else, but they're actually
just getting a bunch of tax and then
they're saying, "Well, we're paying down
our debt." No, you're not. You know,
they they increased the debt ceiling. We
the government shutdown happened today.
You know, they increased the debt
ceiling to $5 trillion. What are they
doing? What was the big beautiful bill
that Trump announced? A bunch of money
for Palanteer, a bunch of money for
Loheed Martin, a bunch of money for
General Dynamic. Um, a deregulation
environment for artificial intelligence,
a bunch of money to um Oracle, you know,
these these these intelligence funded
operations that rely upon Pentagon
budgets. They are ramping up the pent
Pentagon budgets. So, you have a fiscal
dominance
which means the rich get richer and the
poor get poorer. that K-shaped economy
where those that are deep in debt,
they're just trying to survive and the
others are leveraging debt in order to
accumulate more assets.
So once you have that geopolitical
situation plus you have the the macro
situation,
um then I think Bitcoin becomes the the
perfect tool
um to engineer some kind of pump and
dump cycle that resets the chessboard.
Um and I think we'll know about it. it
will look like a a very sophisticated
version of what we saw in 2021
um and 2022 with the with these uh
Celsius, you know, that was the
playground. That was the beta test. Uh
now they're setting up the big game and
the big game is going to be a a big a
big reset of the chessboard. Uh and I
think Bitcoin is is a tool that they can
use and that's why all the central banks
are buying gold right now. you know,
gold is at all-time highs. Um, people
outside of America cannot get enough
gold in exchange for their dollar
reserves. And the only countries that
are still lending to the US government
are the ones that the proof of weapons
network controls. the UK, you know,
we're we're just fully vassalized and
controlled um by, you know, Kostama
might as well work for Black Rockck and
Loheed Martin and JP Morgan. Like, he
might as well sit in that office. He
ain't working for the people. He's just
printing money and sending it to those
companies.
Um, and Japan, now Japan's actually
pivoting.
You know, this is a postw World War II
country that is the largest lender and
purchaser of US bonds.
uh they're they're pivoting now. Uh
they're turning east from west.
And so when you have the you know the
two largest countries that are propping
up this this debt based Ponzi scheme,
then all of a sudden the bag holders of
the dollar are the American people. And
that's why Cayman Island is the largest
lender to the US government right now
cuz that is Black Rockck, that is JP
Morgan, that is all those different
funds. And that's what stable coins are
for. You know, Genius Act was a way of
turning the Federal Reserve uh balances
that the bank had into stable coins. Um
creating a shadow central bank digital
currency for JP Morgan and allowing
players like the Trump Trump family
um and Elon and various other players to
have their stable coin. Um, and you
know, this is all being built up and I
think we'll witness this this cycle
during the Trump administration. Well,
Wall Street is definitely coming to
Bitcoin and it seems also to crypto as
well. And you know, as someone who's
only been in the space since uh 2020,
but an observer before then, I can't
help but feel that all of the
shenanigans of the crypto space are
going to be reborn within a Wall Street
framework. And we're talking ICOs where
people just create money or tokens out
of thin air and and pump and dump them
with exit onto uh onto retail. Yield is
going to come back for certain and
perhaps a few entities fraudulently mis
misstating their the balance sheet like
we saw with FTX as well and potentially
the the rejuvenation or the renaissance
of uh algorithmic stable coins. I
wouldn't say that that concept has uh
has died for good either.
Do you see any of these fraudulent games
being reborn within Wall Street entities
or can you see them already or the
precursors to them?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, what's the
difference? So, that everything we have
experienced in the crypto market um was
a deregulated version of what Wall
Street does in a regulated game. And
Wall Street has a few tools. You know,
they by definition fiat currency is a
Ponzi scheme. You know, there's not
enough debt to pay uh you know, the the
dollar is debt. All of these fiat
currencies are debt. And and every time
they create money as a debt, i.e. a
mortgage, the interest to repay the debt
doesn't exist. So, you have to roll it
over. So that is a Ponzi scheme by
definition, fiat currency, um that
requires everinccreasing debt until you
get to a civil unrest environment
because the K-shaped economy is too bad
and people can't survive and everyone
the others end up with the asset. Um and
so we had a resistance against that in
2008,
you know, that started with the Lehman
Brothers Chapter 11. I I'll remember it
forever. 2000 I think it was September
2008. I remember where I was. Um, and we
had all of these elaborate tools that
were built in the global financial
crisis. But what is the difference? The
difference is that they get to socialize
the losses and privatize the gains.
Um, they're going to do the same with
the Bitcoin and crypto market. You know,
so they have the ability to tokenize
everything into these real world assets,
issue stable coins with a backed by
government debt, follow the US fiscal
dominant strategy,
um, and turn everything in Wall Street
into tokenized stocks, tokenized
everything, even the energy markets, you
know, give you a carbon credit score,
give you an ESG score, allow you to
trade through these tokens.
prediction markets, absolutely
everything is going to come out of this.
Um, it's going to be
more and more financial weapons of mass
destruction in order to
uh manage the game. And the only
difference is is that they can actually
borrow money from the Fed for these fiat
currency uh loans and they get to
socialize, you know, socialize the cost
and privatize the gain. And in the end,
you know where this is going. In the
end, it will be the biggest elaborate
Ponzi scheme and roll over possible.
Um, mass rampant speculation. I mean,
look at the American economy right now.
70% of the American economy is services
and the largest service is financial
services. And so, it is a ultra
financialized economy.
um that is just essentially loving this
tokenization wave and this stable coin
wave and everything you can do and all
the commissions that you can earn from
it. Uh to steal more money from those
that are paying the inflation. Uh you
know the that through money printing and
hand it over here. Uh create an
elaborate debt you know Ponzi scheme
again but this time socialize the losses
and privatize the gains. And what do you
issue to everyone in the end? You issue
them a stable coin helicopter money that
builds the foundation for universal
basic income that's integrated into
Elon's social credit score that's
integrated into Palunteer's artificial
intelligence technology. There is no
doubt in my mind that is the future of
fiat currency and that is the transition
that they are managing right now. Why?
because they know right now that civil
unrest
is the number one enemy of the West
because they're bringing those tools
home, those tools of colonialism and war
that they used everywhere else. They're
bringing them home and when people use
their freedom of speech on social
networks, they're building their social
credit score. Um they're not giving you
freedom of reach, they're just giving
you freedom of speech because they want
you to talk. And um and when you in
America use your second amendment and
you're not going to be shooting guns
into Paland here. We're in a digital
war, but they will certainly use that
just as they are beta testing on the UK
to give you your digital ID
um and to give you all the formation and
when there's the you know so you have
that civil unrest. Immigration is the
tool clearly like this is not
governments that are deciding to use
immigration in order to solve
demographical issues. These are civil
unrest campaigns. They're raging war. Uh
they're then allowing borders to come in
and then they're engineering um hate
campaigns. It's the Jews that rule the
world. It's the Muslims that are
invading. It's the radical left. Um,
it's the far-right Nazi, right? You
know, they're engineering all of that in
order to get as much hate as possible.
That's that's clearly where we where we
are right now. Um, and that civil unrest
will be weaponized as a in order to, you
know, uh, issue this um, universal basic
income or whatever they're going to the
end solution will be. It does feel to me
like there is an agenda to amplify
social issues to generate and exaggerate
social unrest in order to distract from
the problems of the system.
>> Yeah. If you look at even you can look
at you know Elon Musk when he acquired
X. So he acquired it by borrowing
against his Tesla shares and the same
propagators of this uh the financial
industrial complex lent him the money in
order to be able to buy X. That means it
comes with terms and conditions and
those terms and conditions are that you
need to follow the agenda of the proof
of weapons network and you need to build
the tools for the technical industrial
complex. Um, and that is what X is. And
we're all using it, of course, because
we want to get our message out and we've
had freedom of speech for the the first
time, but I'm fully aware that I'm
building my social credit score here.
And I'm fully aware that it's going to
be weaponized. Um, and so I'm utilizing
that for as long as possible. But you
want to be building your Bitcoin exit.
You know, this is your self-custody
side. This is where Bitcoin comes in.
Uh, because there is no stopping this
train. Um I think you know Lyn Nordon
always says that for the fiscal
dominance strategy and the debt based
Ponzi scheme and fiat currency. That's
true for the artificial intelligence
story as well. There's absolutely no
stopping this train. Uh and it is the
only solution is get as much debt as
possible, devalue the the government
debt um and save people with a universal
basic income as we transition to this AI
world. And everybody's got a few years
to make that shift. And I don't want to
be, you know, sometimes people when I
describe this, I talk about doomer, you
know, they call me a doomer. Um, I'm not
a doomer. I don't want to paint the
world as worse than it is or better than
it is. I want to tell you how I see the
world as it is. Um, so that you can
prepare
because you got to see the world as it
is before it is. Uh, and you right now
if you need more bit, you know, there's
simple strategies. Just own more Bitcoin
every month. um and hold it in self-
custody. Like that's something everyone
has to do. Everybody has to do it.
That's the future of your decentralized
ID, your decentralized data, your
decentralized social. The skill of
self-custody is something everyone has
to do. Sadly, the old people just ain't
going to master it. Um, but you you need
to learn that because you need to
protect yourself because it may take you
it took me 10 years ago in 2015.
I predicted where I think our country
was going. So, I left the country. I
prepared my exit. Um, I invested made
all the investments I needed to do. I
made a commitment from when Bitcoin was
$3 to own more Bitcoin every single
month, no matter how much it is. I was
deep in debt at the time. Um, now I got
10 years
to
prepare and I'm prepared, you know, I'm
prepared for this. Um, and I think
everybody's got five five years to
prepare from here, from today. So,
everybody needs to make a commitment
from today
that they need to prepare for this. And
even if it doesn't happen, if it turns
out, Simon, you're crazy. You're just
some radical conspiracy theorist,
uh, you will be in a lot better position
even if this doesn't happen. uh because
you prepared for what might happen. I
think this is happening. Um and I think
it it's not something you can wait to
happen and then suddenly try and figure
out how to fix it. You need 5 years. You
know, you need to decide what am I doing
with my debt. If you're deep in debt,
you know, there was a moment in two, you
know, I left investment banking in 2006.
I tried to create a bank. I went in
creating that bank which didn't work.
Um, I got very deep in debt. Um, and I
had a choice at the first Bitcoin
conference to either pay my debt or buy
Bitcoin. And I can't give you the
advice. There's consequences to this.
But I decided I have to pay myself first
and I have to build an asset and then
one day I'll be able to pay down my
debt. And I made that decision. That
decision was the best decision I ever
made. That sounds
crazy given how early you were into
Bitcoin. What gave you that conviction
that Bitcoin had longevity? For me, um I
got Bitcoin because I found it at the
exact time when I realized
uh that there was no solution to the
debt based Ponzi scheme. And so before I
was a Bitcoiner, I was a part of a
monetary reform community. Uh and we
used to in the UK there was um I was
part of it in both America and UK. Um I
think it was Dennis Cassinich that had
implemented a bill in order to um like
ban fractional reserve banking.
Um and I spoke at the his conference in
Chicago. This is before Bitcoin. Um, and
I in the UK I was a part of a group
called Positive Money and uh they used
to meet it was a bunch of pensioners and
old people that would meet. It was
boring as [ __ ] Um, you know, uh, we
used to go to this place in Birmingham
called Brmsgrave and and we used to go
to this hotel in Brmsgrave where
everybody all these pensioners would
talk about how we're going to move to a
gold standard again and eliminate
fractional reserve banking. And we used
to debate it and there were all these
old school people that were a part of
the monetary reform community for all
these decades trying to get the world
back onto a gold standard. And they knew
me as the guy that knew technology and
the social media guy and you know all
this type of stuff. So I would take
their thoughts and I would um put it up
on YouTube and share it on social media.
Uh so this is 2006 I left investment
banking.
Um I then decided that look after
working with like there was a guy called
who was a part of the community called
Dave Fishwick who created a BBC
documentary on trying to create a bank.
Um and uh he wanted to create a
community bank just to pull together
money and lend people that money. Um and
it was like this BBC documentary and we
went to parliament and we presented in
parliament and uh I also um was invited
to Sir John Vickers uh was the person
that was doing the investigation into
the financial crisis and the reforms
that needed to happen in order to make
banking the uh yeah I forget what it was
called the bank um stability thing that
was happening forget what it's called
now um but I was in these communities
trying to persuade banks of the monetary
reforms. I.e., I've got a good idea. Why
don't we just have a way way less
profitable business where there's full
reserves? Um, and fractional reserve is
a problem. Obviously, they they've
captured the system. They're not
receptive to that. So, then I would go
to government and try and then I
realized that the politicians I met a a
guy called MP Steve Baker was the only
one that actually understood money and
was part of the monetary reform
community in UK. of the 650 members of
parliament, they had zero clue. They
thought it was a conspiracy theory. If
you said banks when they issue a loan,
they create credit. They they thought
that no, banks don't create money, you
know, that's a conspiracy. And these
were the people that were in charge of
getting us out of the financial crisis,
you know. So, I I was involved in those
communities and I said, "Look, um why
don't I just create a fractional reserve
bank?" You know, I had a bunch of
savings from my career investment
banking. I left and just did about a
couple of years really geeked out on
understanding how banks work. Read all
the Bank of England papers. Uh read the
entire history. I was writing my book at
the time on um how to transition, you
know, essentially what would later be
known as a central bank digital
currency. How to take the digital
balances of banks um impact the share
price to transition to full reserve. And
I said, "Right, why don't we just create
a full reserve bank?" Um, and so I
created a company called Bank to the
Future. It was incorporated in the UK.
Um, we started in 2009 just after the
financial crisis. And we applied to the
Bank of England for a banking license.
Um, they told us a few things. The the
first thing they told us is firstly you
have to put um 60 million as a deposit
to continue this application.
I didn't have 60 million uh and I didn't
know how to raise it. And so that was
the first condition. Um the second
condition was right you want to do full
reserves. Okay, you can do four
reserves, but you have to build on top
of a clearing bank. And there's only
four clearing banks, and the only one
that would allow us uh to use their
technology was Barclays.
And so they said, you have to build your
bank on top of Barclays. And I go, but
that means that my full reserves will be
their fractional reserves. And so they
said, yes, and that's how it works. uh
you have to build on top of a fractional
reserve bank uh because we're not going
to give you clearing and you need to put
60 million deposit to continue uh the
application.
Um and you have to adhere to all of this
surveillance so that people can't move
their money and you have to have this
elaborate anti-moneyaundering program
and bank secrecy act and all the things
that had come through. So I we went to
them and said we want a bank where
people can own their money, people can
spend their money. Um and we want it
where they are full reserves. Um so
there's no risk in it. Essentially a
stable coin as we know it today. Um but
trying to do that on the banking rails
at the Bank of England. Um so I we lost
all our money investing in that
business. Um, and uh, we couldn't raise
the deposit.
Uh, so we gave up. Um, and and that was
the moment that I got a direct message
on Facebook Messenger from a guy called
Johnny Bitcoin.
Uh, and Johnny Bitcoin said to me, "Hey,
Simon,
um, you know that monetary reform
meeting, the positive money meeting and
stuff? Okay, I've decided to um sell my
house and I've moved into a squat in Old
Street, London. Um and I've put all my
money into Bitcoin. This is pre, you
know, this is this is very early pre $10
Bitcoin.
Uh and uh he was in that squat was a
person that was working on core
development. His name was Amir Taki. Uh
and Amir Taki um was he became the
spokesperson the very first spokesperson
on national TV for Bitcoin. And this guy
is radical like this you know this guy
is the worst person you could put on the
face of Bitcoin because he you know he
would say things like you know Bitcoin's
great you can launder money and uh you
know the government can't do nothing
about it and you know what I can buy
with my Bitcoin? I can buy drugs. and he
was in this crackdown and obviously the
BBC loved it because it was that early
perception of what they wanted to
portray Bitcoin as. And so he he he was
like the face of Bitcoin in the early
days and you can go back and see
Amirataki and these you know he he was
drugged out giving these interviews in a
squat.
>> Well, you can just imagine how how
popular he'd be for media to get an
interview with him because he'd just
repeat those things that were so
sensational.
>> Absolutely. Um and so Johnny Bitcoin um
had moved into this squat. Um had put
all his money, sold his house. Uh the
price of Bitcoin over that year did
incredibly well. He started investing in
various different startups and stuff. Um
but um he introduced me to Amiaki and
then Amir Taki um said, "Would you like
to come and speak at that Bitcoin
conference in Prague?" Um and uh myself,
I went there and I gave a presentation.
It's still up on YouTube on my channel.
Um and uh Max Kaiser was there and this
is when Bitcoin crashed from $30 to $3
at the time. Um and there were these
radical people and so the moment I sat
down and I was writing the book as well
at the time to hear the Bitcoin message
I had been through understanding that
you couldn't solve the problem that
Bitcoin solved in the traditional rails.
And so when I realized that this is
money you can own, money you can spend,
and money that has a fixed supply
um with you know um I I was 100%
receptive to that message.
>> So you knew they were features that you
uh at least a strong small community
people were looking for. But what made
you think that it would expand beyond
that or did you not care if it did?
>> No, I didn't care. So we were the the
early Bitcoin community. We were a bunch
of cipher punks and activists
that, you know, none no one really came
from money. No one no one was in it for
the money. No, we we were there to
create a way of transacting outside the
bank and try and help Julian Assange
keep Wikileaks alive, you know, and uh
the early Bitcoin podcasts were like I
remember was it um
one of the early interviews I do it was
like it was called Bitcoin not bombs. So
I I was part of the you know this whole
proof of weapons network. It it was my
routes before Bitcoin because I was part
of all believing that the banking system
funds wars and understanding the history
of central banking and how it was
created as a scheme to fund wars. Um and
so the early podcasts were that that
type of community. We were Bitcoin not
bombs. We were cipher punks. We were us
versus the banks. Um no one was there to
make money. like we we never imagined
that this would be a scheme or well we
never imagined that we'd become rich out
of this. Uh we just wanted to create
freedom.
Uh and uh yeah you know and and when the
price went up I was like okay uh maybe I
should invest some of this. Well, and so
what what we did is essentially we
pivoted bank to the future into a way of
bitcoiners pulling together their money
and investing in companies. Um and uh
through that we got access to rounds
like Kraken, Coinbase, all the companies
I mentioned before uh Bitay and various
other companies. And so we managed to
put together a pool of people that
wanted to invest in the Bitcoin
companies and the bank became Bitcoin
and us allowing these companies that
were going to make Bitcoin better to get
funding. Uh and then we've never looked
back since. Uh we we were in fact a
Bitcoin treasury company because we have
Bitcoin on the balance sheet. So we
never needed Silicon Valley. We never
went public. Um, and Bitcoin funded the
whole thing, which gave us a level of
autonomy and independence in our company
that meant we would never be consumed
into the proof of weapons network. Uh,
and I did the same. Um, and uh, rather
than paying my debt, uh, we hit the
point where we realized, holy [ __ ] this
is fixed supply and the demand is going
up and up and up. uh the utilities going
up and up and up and and suddenly, you
know, it kind of transitioned into a
realization that um this was actually
simultaneously an asset and the the best
asset that existed. Um and so it was at
that moment when I decided uh Bliss, we
need as Bliss is my wife that we
co-founded the company with. um you know
we need as much Bitcoin in the company
as possible and we need to get as much
Bitcoin as possible and we just need to
own more each month. Um and so from then
we had the conviction actually Bliss was
very convicted u my wife very fortunate
we were in this together and she had the
same conviction and we just decided
right let let's let's not pay the debt
let's not let's default. Well, I just
want to touch on that because there's
there's a meme in the Bitcoin community
about the the reluctant wife, you know,
trying to talk her husband or partner
into selling Bitcoin to renovate a
kitchen or to do the house or go
shopping or whatever. But, you know,
I've spoken to a couple a few couples in
this space and actually the woman has
been the one who's had the most the
strongest conviction from the earliest
um days. So, it's really interesting
that you uh reflect on on sort of the
anecdotal evidence that I've come across
as well. So, you know, that meme, we
need to retire that meme. I think I mean
it's a it gets a lot of engagement, but
we need to retire that. I think the
women in Bitcoin are every bit as
convicted as any of the men. That's for
sure. Bliss was more convicted than me.
Absolutely. So, she was the as far as I
know, she was the third woman in
Bitcoin. There was Stacy Herbert with
Max. Um there was Isabella that created
Trezor. Um she was at the the Prague
conference and she was running like a an
incubator. Um and then there was Bliss
and Bliss as soon as she saw this uh
these crazy people at the Bitcoin
conference and you know you can only
describe them as ADHD
uh
>> autist like there was this one guy I
remember I I still don't remember who it
was. He was he just kept kicking his leg
and he was very awkwardly on the stage
giving this amazing presentation around
how Bitcoin was going to allow you to um
have bikes as currency and there's going
to be these barter networks and just
this very elaborate presentation that
Bliss really liked cuz um you know she's
Britishborn but her family's um from
Bangladesh uh and so she understood
community and peer-to-peer systems and
that people would pull together money um
and they wouldn't borrow you know um you
know ribber and interest is illegal in
Muslim countries and um she she
understood all all these concepts so as
soon as I took my financial experience
and she worked at Barclay's bank and we
quit together I was in investment
banking she was in commercial banking um
but combined together you know we were
completely on board and she was very
convicted she just every single month
she made sure we got to have more
Bitcoin um and then we just made the
decision let's let's default on the debt
um we'll will pay the debt off later.
And we did pay the debt off later and we
paid my father's mortgage off. Um, and
we got to the point where we had enough
Bitcoin
that we knew, you know, some of the
worst purchases I've ever made. We
bought our house for a,000 Bitcoin. Um,
you know, but we knew that there's a
moment when you calculate this will be
the worst.
>> That's $10 million. If you're doing the
calculations, right, it's more than 10
million right now. So,
>> where are we now? That's that's 100
million, isn't it? No, thousand bitcoin.
Oh, thousand. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah, it is.
Is it 100 million? Yeah, I was thinking.
>> Yeah, the zero is right in my head.
>> Yeah. Um 115 million. Yeah. Uh so, you
know, it's going to be the worst
investment you ever make. Um but this is
the journey of a Bitcoiner. you know,
earn more Bitcoin every month and then
when you need to fulfill certain
obligations, know that this is going to
be the worst investment you ever make,
buying a house. Um, but does it provide
you with another need, security,
whatever it is that's right for you. We
wanted to build a castle on an island
with the best security possible. Um,
because safety became important, so we
we set about doing that. Um and uh yeah,
it was the worst investment we ever made
because real estate and property is a if
you take the price of if you price
everything in Bitcoin, this is this is
the shift everyone needs to make. Price
everything in Bitcoin and price
everything in gold and you'll realize
everything is a bad investment. The
stock market is performing awful. Real
estate is performing awful. That's the
mental shift. Once once we shifted to
pricing everything in Bitcoin and
pricing everything in gold, the whole
world makes sense. You know, we're just
devaluing the dollar and so assets look
like they're going up. Um and when you
price it in Bitcoin and gold, every
everything makes sense. If you if there
is one fundamental shift, take every
chart of everything,
even even your your your Bitcoin. And
then this is how you protect yourself
from volatility. Like if you know you're
buying more Bitcoin this month, whatever
the price is, it doesn't matter. And it
will always you'll always buy it at the
top. Every time I buy Bitcoin, it's at
the top, you know, and I think, "Ah
[ __ ] if I had just waited another few
hours or another few days, I would have
got a better price." Um, it doesn't
matter. It's completely irrelevant in
the grand scheme of things. You buy your
Bitcoin that month and and if the price
crashes, you've got more Bitcoin that
you get for your fiat currency. So, you
love crashes. Like, I I can sit through
any crash. This this could go on for
years. We could enter into a multi-year
bare market where everybody is
depressed. Everyone thinks it's over.
I've just seen that cycle so many times
now. Um, and I know that every month I'm
getting more Bitcoin for my fiat
currency and my community of people that
have bought into this ideology are all
getting their chunk of Bitcoin and they
want the price to go down. Like they
celebrate when it goes up. It feels good
as your fiat currency wealth goes up,
but it also means you're getting less
Bitcoin. And so you you are in a
five-year race to accumulate as much
Bitcoin as you can. There will never be
another five years like the five years
ahead. AI is going to change everything.
All of these changes. The world's going
to change. The dollar is going to be
everything's going to change in this
this next 10 years will be the radical I
think the fastest shift the world has
ever seen. We are alive today in that 10
years. Um in the next 5 years, you need
to accumulate as much Bitcoin as is
humanly possible. Not financial advice.
I can't promise things will be the same
as they were in the past, but I can tell
you I'll still do it even though I've
got more than, you know, enough. But
what what am I going to do? Am I going
to hold it in fiat currency? I mean, I
don't I've got gold for security. I've
got my real estate. You know, you you
start to make these decisions. And this
is how you get on the other side
of the K-shaped economy. The only way I
know to beat it is, and everybody can do
it, is decide, do I want to pay off my
debt or do I want to buy more Bitcoin?
Uh, you got 5 years to make that
decision. And at the end of that, you're
either going to be on a universal basic
income or you're going to have Bitcoin
and self-custody.
And everybody else would have given it
to Wall Street. You would have kept
yours. You don't care what Wall Street
do with their pump and dump scheme or
whatever they're going to do with
Bitcoin. you got yours and everybody
else is going to be on universal basic
income is my prediction. And if that
doesn't happen, at least you would have
accumulated your Bitcoin and prepared
for this world anyway. There are a
couple of things I want to add to that.
Um the first caveat is you want to buy
with money that you're not going to
touch for four years minimum. So you're
not putting everything, every last bit
of cash that you have and then hoping
the price goes up high enough so you can
pay your bills and put food on the
table. It's money that you you're not
going to touch for your living expenses
for 4 years. The other thing is just to
balance out the conversation and I agree
with you about having a strong appetite
and discipline to accumulate Bitcoin.
But there comes a point where you have
to start improving your life. You can't
just look at your UTXOs and, you know,
bask in the warmth of your your computer
screen in a desolate apartment with a
mattress on the floor and bed sheets
that are that should have been changed
four weeks ago sort of thing. You know,
the meme of Michael Sailor created, how
many chairs do you own? So, we've all
got one chair. We've got a mattress on
the floor and we're watching our Bitcoin
go up in value. But it comes a point in
time where you do have to invest in
improving your life. Otherwise, what's
the point of accumulating wealth? What
would you say to that?
>> I completely agree. Um, you know,
everybody the the thing that Bitcoin
does once you've once you've solved
financial anxiety and I know what it's
like to be financial I I know what it's
like to be in financial anxiety. The the
reason I got into investment banking in
the first place was actually cuz my
father grew up, you know, he was born in
33. So he went through World War II and
uh he he lived in a house in poverty in
a town in England called Bristol uh that
was bombed during World War II. uh and
he found himself under a table with six
brothers and one sister and all sleeping
on the floor, you know, in absolute
poverty. His father became a bus driver.
Interestingly, a bus driver after World
War II could pay for six sons, one
daughter and a wife. And obviously they
had a very frugal life. But can you
imagine doing that today? seven children
and your wife and him went out as a bus
driver. That's the impact of inflation.
>> Well, just just to give people uh some
context, uh Transport for London
advertises for bus drivers
salary paying about 25 to 28,000 as
though that's a really good salary for a
bus driver. Can you imagine with 30
grand, even 60 grand, 100 grand, trying
to pay for six children, even just going
through state school and living like you
described a frugal life, it's just not
possible.
>> No, the maths don't add up. No,
>> you know, and so that that doesn't but
that was the postw World War II, you
know, life.
>> Um and and my father, he bought his
first house in Kensington,
borrowed some money. Uh he got a house
on Kensington High Street for £12,000.
>> For people outside the UK who are not
familiar with London's burrows and
streets, Kensington is one of the
poshest, most expensive burs you could
possibly aspire to live on or even own
any kind of property. So to be a bus
driver to be able to buy any kind of
property in Kensington High Street is
insane from the 2025 perspective.
>> Yeah. So my father you know came from
this poverty managed to actually he did
it by and I don't recommend then it like
my father he's passed away he actually
passed away the same day that Celsius
closed um their uh withdrawals which is
interesting so it became a bit of a
thing for me
>> um but my father you know he he brought
me up and um
>> uh you know he he
uh went from he he made his first chunk
of money through gambling
in the casinos.
Um then he bought a house in Kensington
High Street with that money. Uh and then
from there he managed to you know build
essentially become a millionaire in
pound value. I think he built up to 1
million pound and it took him his whole
life. Uh so he got to the point where he
retired and a million pounds to him was
such a massive number. I mean that
doesn't get you anywhere today but you
know that was such a huge number for
him. Uh he retired and then um decided
to get into the stock market. So he
started uh trading stocks and I was just
under 20. 1998
uh and he was winning uh because this is
the the dotcom boom and he kept winning
and he kept winning and he went through
the shitcoin cycle. He was winning. He
was winning. So then he just put
everything in. Uh he put everything he
had ever made in everything was
invested. Uh he was trading trying to
buy the top do the bottom. You know
there was nothing but just believing I'm
a good trader because I made a load of
money out of a rising market. Uh then
the dotcom bust happened and he lost
everything.
And so his entire life of rags to
getting to a million um went just
completely blew up in the stock market
where he had like you know less than 10%
of it left. Uh and uh you know it was
such a traumatizing time and he said to
me, "Son, what happened to my money?
Where is it? Who who's got it? Where's
that money? That was my entire life." He
he just didn't know where it went. And
and it was at that point where I decided
I'm going to get the answer to you. And
so that kicked off my obsession in
money. Um, you know, led to me working
in banking and blacking my way up in in
those areas, then leaving, doing
monetary reform, and then finding
Bitcoin at $3. So, it's kind of a
continuation and a cycle. But the
proudest moment for me was just to pay
off my father's mortgage. Um,
>> what did he make of your success?
>> Um, my father was incredibly incredibly
proud. Um he didn't understand it cuz he
got really angry when I left investment
banking. Uh he thought you got this
amazingly paid job and then I was in
debt and then I was struggling you know
and to he could never understand that.
Um, and then I started accumulating
Bitcoin and I'd try and always tell dad
about this Bitcoin stuff. And every time
the price go, he kept watching it on the
news and every time the price went up,
"Yo, son, cash out. Cash out. Let's get
out. You know, cash out now. You know,
it's going to crash. It's over." Cuz he
he had that in his psyche. He remembered
the stocks and he remembered that they
pumped up in price and then they come
back down. And his whole thing was buy
real estate, you know, uh, and he
couldn't get that out of his psyche. Um,
and he didn't believe me that Bitcoin
was a good investment or Bitcoin was
something that would change until the
day when I managed to pay for a private
jet for him to come to the island. Um,
and you know, come to the house and
experience,
you know, after paying off his mortgage
and, uh, doing all that stuff. Um and it
was when he walked in for him everything
was physical. You know once you see a
house it is real. Uh and he couldn't get
his head around digital wealth. He
couldn't get around his head around a
virtual business. He was like s why why
you when'd you go into the office? You
know there is no office. I'm working on
lap what do you mean you're working on a
laptop? What do you mean you're working
on a computer? You got where are people?
he just could not transition from that
that world. Um, and so eventually once
he saw a nice house and a mortgage paid
off, then he was like, "Okay, son, you
made the right moves." And and he was
very very proud of that. Um, and yeah, I
got I got to give him the life. I mean,
he was frugal. He never asked for
anything, you know. Um, but I got to
give him the life that I felt he
deserved for backing me. Um, and uh, you
know, that was that was our that was our
journey. I can't I can't remember why.
So, you know, that's how I I got into
this whole thing. And I I forget where
our conversation was that story. I
appreciate you sharing that with us.