[Music]
We've been talking about the type of
content that Netflix has been pushing
for years and years now. And over the
past week, it absolutely blew up. some
of the same shows that we've talked
about before, some of the same content
that we've talked about before, but it
blew up because one, Elon Musk was
noticing it, and so many other people
saw some of them for the first time.
What people that talk in the
entertainment space have noticed for
forever, especially for some of the
content for young children that Netflix
is a streaming service in particular
that seems to have a lot of [ __ ] up
[ __ ] in their catalog. Netflix Grooming
Syndicate stock slides as boycott rages.
This is over on Breitbart. Now, it's
true the stock has been down over the
past couple days, down over about 4%. I
think it was at 5% at one point. And now
that's a little more than the Disney
stock slid for the Jimmy Kimmel boycott.
But certainly with the stock price still
over,00. It's not like Netflix is dying
or anything like that. But certainly
they have had a lot of negative coverage
in large part due to Elon Musk and other
people saying that this is [ __ ] that
shouldn't be fed to your kids. And
they're absolutely right. Elon Musk
leads mass Netflix membership
cancellations after company's children's
cartoon creator smears Charlie Kirk as a
Nazi. Now I do think that there are some
things you should understand about this
one. This person, Hamish Steel, the
creator of Dead End Paranormal Park, is
actually not employed by Netflix
anymore. His dog [ __ ] show that pushes
transgenderism on children, already got
cancelled 2 years ago, but it still is
on the platform, which is where you can
find stuff like this. It's not the park.
It's It's me.
I'm trans, Norma. And everyone at school
knows. And everyone at home knows. And
being here, it's like a whole new place.
I can just be Barney and I can choose if
and when I tell people I've never been
happier. And right, so and this series
is rated uh I I think TV Y7. So it's
appropriate for 7 years old essentially.
Like that's what this stuff is. And you
have this transgender propaganda. You
want to wonder why so many people in
school right now are identifying as
non-binary and trans and all this stuff.
Is it because they just so happen to
appear like out of nowhere and start
identifying that way? Or it is because
they were programmed by what they
consume? I think we all understand that.
That's why so many of these people have
worked so hard to get control of these
companies to push propaganda on to
children. And it's time after time,
right? We can see this in a lot of
different things. Uh, this is the
person, the the freak, the degenerate
that they had tweet from the official
the the official Netflix account, by the
way, to promote The Babysitters Club,
another children's show that promotes
this stuff to children, right? This is
the person, the type of stuff that they
tweeted before Netflix allowed them to
take I I I don't even want to read some
of this [ __ ] I a trans person. I miss
walking into a women's bathroom at work
and getting a weird look from one of the
PR girls and then them trying to cover
it up by saying, "Hey lady, I've become
such a cumlut since since hormones stole
my semen." What a vile, disgusting human
being that Netflix lets control their
own social media. And this is what you
get in that show.
>> Took a while, but we finally found a
file for a Bailey Delveio. Is 32 Burn
Hill Road still the current address?
>> Yeah.
>> Have you been getting influence? If he's
dehydrated, we'll need to place an IV,
>> right? Have you been giving him fluids
if he's dehydrated? Well, don't you know
this child identifies as trans. So, if
you want to know why the babysitter's
there at the hospital, maybe it's
because their parents are failing them,
maybe it's because their parents aren't
present and that's why this boy is
identifying as a girl, right? Doctor
comes in. Same thing.
>> I hear someone's not feeling well. Let's
take a look at the little man.
Can I please talk to you two outside?
>> So now the the little [ __ ] you know,
biracial babysitter or whatever has to
let the white male doctor know it's not
okay that you just misgendered this
person.
>> I know that you guys are busy, but as
you would see if you looked at her and
not her chart, Bailey is not a boy. And
by treating her like one, you are
completely ignoring who she is.
>> This is the type of [ __ ] that is
programmed for children. Say nothing of
all the gay stuff that's obviously so
present. Children's cartoon produced by
the Obamas, gay marriage, gay kiss, all
of this stuff promoted to children.
Jurassic, a Jurassic Park show. These
are all the things that have been flying
all around for the past week. And it's
why so many people who are seeing it for
the first time like Elon Musk apparently
are saying cancel Netflix for the health
of your kids. Now when it comes to
Netflix, they have a massive catalog.
And you know, do do I like, you know,
when I'm scrolling through a catalog
seeing random [ __ ] gay [ __ ] or
whatever? Not really. However, there is
a difference when it's stuff that's for
adults. It's stuff for adult programming
than when it's specifically engineered
and designed to warp children's minds,
which is what a lot of this stuff is
about. You got this guy, right, this
creator who called Charlie Kirk a Nazi.
One of the reasons this boycott really
took off, one of these calls to cancel
Netflix really took off because this is
the person they hire. And when you
employ people like this, you should know
what you're getting. You should know
that you're not going to get a great TV
show. You're going to get [ __ ]
political propaganda because look at
these freaks. He they Well, there you
go. That's one indicator right there.
And this is somebody in the aftermath of
Charlie Kirk being murdered. Why the
[ __ ] are you even commenting on this
[ __ ] You sympathy for I can't even
spell right or I can't even use proper
grammar, but you sympathy for any of the
families being slaughtered by your
weapons, but not a but a random Nazi
gets shot and it's a public statement.
You're such a [ __ ] evil [ __ ] Hish
deal, you are the evil [ __ ] You're the
person who's trying to promote
transgenderism to children, to
sevenyear-olds.
And now a lot of people have noticed
this [ __ ] And look, we've been talking
about even some of these similar shows.
The Transformer show from a while ago
brought up got brought up. I already
made a video about that. Some of these
shows are no longer actively like
actually being produced by Netflix. They
already cancelled this weird trans show
already. But for a lot of people, it's
the first time they might be seeing this
and they don't realize that if you pop
on Netflix for your children, this might
be the [ __ ] that they see. and they
might all of a sudden think, "Hey, this
guy's really happy now that he said he's
trans. I want to be happy, too. Maybe
I'll identify as this."
For most parents, it's disturbing and
disgusting. And that's why so many
people are on Netflix ass over this
stuff right now to the point where there
might be a congressional hearing of
sorts for the type of propaganda that
Netflix is pushing on children. Only
time will tell, but a lot of people are
talking about this right now.
[Music]