Hey everyone and welcome back to another
video for today. We have to talk about
Amazon. Amazon is a very interesting
case to study because Amazon is a
tremendous company yet a tremendous
company has underperformed the market by
quite a lot. Over the past 5 years, the
stock is only up 41%.
So it's underperforming the S&P, it's
underperforming the NASDAQ. And of
course, it is underperforming its peers.
Now, Amazon right now is a company worth
$2.37
trillion. Trading PE looks much much
better today than it was before. It sits
at 33.9 times and a forward one of 32.1
times. Now, Amazon is my second largest
holding in the retirement portfolio
behind Meta. Meta is number one. Amazon
was number one for a long period of
time. Meta is number one because I
loaded the boat back in 2022. Then it's
Mercad Lib√©, Tesla, and I own even more
Google in that portfolio. I've been
owning Amazon since 2018, since the
first trade war with China. And so in
today's video, I do want to touch on the
Amazon business, right? It's of course a
business and a name that we know very
well. But I do want to touch on the well
underperforming part of it and where I
see it going from here. So if you're
interested in that, hit all the buttons.
Would really appreciate that. If you
want to support me even further, do
check out the link down in the
description and end up in comment to the
top 10 best stocks to buy now or go to
full.com/cotinvestor.
Thank you very much and also a special
thanks to fiscal.ai for sponsoring this
video. Everything you see here, every
piece of information comes from
fiscal.ai. There is a link down in the
description and in the pin comment.
You'll get 15% off if you use my link.
New users will get fiscal pro for 2
weeks for free. So you can try it out.
Now of course when we talk about Amazon
either we think about the online stores
only, right? because that's the biggest
segment over the last 12 months that has
generated $255.8
8 billion in revenue and that's growing
still 8% 7% or so yearover-year
or when we think about Amazon especially
as investors we think about AWS and AWS
is a business that is generating or has
generated $116.3 billion over the last
12 months and that's growing 18%
yearover-year. AWS is still number one
when you look at AWS, Azure, Google
Cloud, Alibaba Cloud, but AWS is also
the one that is not growing as fast as
the others. And that has been one of the
issues around the stock and maybe around
Andy Jasse as well is that the messaging
behind this doesn't make much sense,
right? We see capex increase. We see all
of your competitors grow and increase
capex as well. So why aren't we seeing
this with AWS or why aren't we seeing it
with AWS just yet? Well, first of all,
the size of the business is different,
right? The dollar amount that AWS is
adding is of course much bigger than the
others. But still there is a question
about okay growth rates. Why have the
growth rates not been like Azure and
Google Cloud? Okay, Google Cloud is much
much smaller which is also why margins
for Google Cloud are lower than AWS. For
example, AWS last quarter operating
margin here of 33% quarter before that
was closer to 40% 39% or so. So of
course a huge difference between an AWS
and a Google Cloud right now. But as
I've shown you time and time again with
Google Cloud that is going up and to the
right while Google Cloud becomes bigger
and bigger. Now the thing here is with
AWS is that growth is expected to
reacelerate. If we go and look at a semi
analysis post here, they look at AWS
year-over-year growth on a constant
currency basis and the forecasted
growth. So they do forecast that growth
is about to accelerate. And when you
have such an acceleration of such a huge
huge dollar amount, well, things are
going to get very very interesting for
Amazon and AWS's business. The first
catalyst here is Entropic's first AWS
Gigawatt scale cluster that will begin
operations. And then we have the second
one which is basically for the next
quarter. Second AWS Gigawatt cluster
begins operations. It's a bit like the
Oracle OpenAI or maybe also Azure OpenAI
combination. And so yes, while right now
we are only growing 18% year-over-year.
It's a business that generates 116.3
billion per year, but it's only growing
18%, right? What happens when we
suddenly start growing 20%
year-over-year? this is going to become
an even better money-making machine
that's also very very profitable and
then and then I do think you're going to
see the business especially at the
bottom line start to change completely
now like I said at the start it's not
just AWS if we do look at the fastest
growing businesses which are also higher
margins and here I am excluding AWS
because we've just talked about it but I
am showing you the comparison this type
of green here that's the online stores.
All the rest, third party seller
services, advertising, subscription
services are faster growing segments
that are also higher margins. And as you
can see, over the past 5 years or so,
these businesses have grown faster than
online stores, growing faster, higher
margins, which means that Amazon turns
into a more profitable business. I don't
see this changing anytime soon. If we
actually go and look at for example the
advertising in the subscription
business. First up subscription. Amazon
has more than 200 million global prime
members with the most recent data
indicating over 240
million members by mid 2025. And
according to some estimates in the
United States alone, that's between 180
to
197 maybe right now already 200 million
members just United States. I still
think that Amazon Prime is the best
subscription in the market. You get of
course good deals on Amazon. You get
super fast shipping and then of course
you get the Amazon Prime Video
Entertainment. Yes, different locations,
different prices, different services.
For example, in Belgium, I barely pay
anything for Amazon Prime because of
course I'm not getting the same service
as you're getting in the United States,
for example. But I do think that as they
add more value, the subscription price
will go up. And if the value goes up,
why would I unsubscribe? Just doesn't
make much sense. Then if we look at the
advertising business, this is Amazon.
The yellow bar right here over the past
couple of years that has grown at a
compound annual growth rate of 33.2%.
YouTube ads has grown by 18.3% meta
advertising by 18.2% and Google search
and others by 14.7%.
Now, if we go back here on fiscal.ai, we
can actually look at the advertising
business. Look at the year-over-year
growth rates again over the last 12
months. This is a business that
generates $61.2
2 billion in revenue growing 19%.
I mean I think they can continue to grow
19 20% or so for the next 10 years. This
is of course high margin business.
Looking at the other business, the
subscription services one, this is a
$46.7 billion business over the last 12
months growing low double digits in this
case 11%. Can it continue to grow 10 11%
or so for the foreseeable future? I
think it can. I think it can. So if you
just take advertising and the
subscription business, you already have
an over hundred billion dollar business
over the last 12 months growing double
digits. What type of multiple do you
want to put on that? Right? It's quite
incredible what kind of businesses
Amazon owns. And we are just always
talking about either AWS or some people
just think it's just Amazon.com. But
Amazon as a business has tremendous
value with these sub businesses. Then
moving on to the why has it
underperformed and why will it
outperform in the future. First up,
let's have a look here at EV2 operating
cash flow to actually see how profitable
the core business is or the pricing of
the core business. Right now we're
seeing trailing EV to operating cash
flow 19.9. The average over the past 10
years was 27 times. If we look at the
forward one, that's 15.1. The average
over the past 10 years, 19.5. So, of
course, you're paying less today than
you were before because today I do think
that the business is of course better
than before. And we can see this right
here. Free cash flow compared to
operating income. Look at the huge
difference right now. Huge, huge
difference between operating income and
free cash flow. Look at what has
happened with free cash flow over the
last 12 months. that is we have reached
the peak here of close to $50 billion in
free cash flow. Since then that number
has come down. Of course we also know we
also know what has happened in the
meantime. Capex has continued to
increase. Last quarter of the last 12
months that's over $108 billion in
capex. I don't see this number becoming
much much smaller anytime soon. But
yeah, the increase in capex, I do think
that the increase is going to slow down
a bit. And once once capex starts to
slow down, we should start to see how
profitable the core business is going to
be. The current projections are like
this. When you look at free cash flow
for fiscal 25, $23.8 billion, then that
jumps to 53.1 billion in fiscal 26. and
then another 59% year-over-year growth
in fiscal 27 to reach $84.6 billion in
free cash flow. If we look at operating
margin for the business again here last
12 months, we can see the huge huge
improvement over the last 3 years. We
went from 2.7% back in Q4 2022 Q1 2023
to now 11.4%.
Now, as for the non-scientific part of
the video, this is net income growth
over the last couple of years. And this
is the price of Amazon stock and net
income. As you can see, it does follow
net income. And lastly here, and I do
think that this will change. This is the
total shares outstanding. Over the past
10 years, we have seen it increase by
around 1.3% compounded. So, sometimes it
grows 1%, sometimes 2%. Amazon is one of
the only ones I think with Tesla that
does not buy back its own shares for
now. Amazon is one of those businesses
that they grow but they continue to
invest aggressively to make the business
better, bigger and stronger. But at one
point, yes, at one point I do think that
this business will just be so profitable
that they will start to buy back shares.
This is also one of the reasons why we
have seen Amazon probably underperform
over the past couple of years. But I do
think that that will change in the
future as this company will just
generate an insane amount of free cash
flow. We are going to see the stock
outperform over the next 5 years or at
least that's my prediction. Last two
things here. One, today you're paying $0
on their version of autonomous vehicles.
In this case, it's Zuks. I do think that
in the future you're going to see these
types of vehicles, probably some fleets
of them in resorts, hotels, especially
they're already testing it out in Vegas,
but I do see this format of an
autonomous vehicle in resorts in smaller
communities, maybe colleges, schools.
Maybe this is going to be also a type of
delivery vehicle in the future.
Autonomous delivery vehicles, maybe
they're going to do this with their own
vans, with Rivian. Who knows? But
currently, you're paying, of course, in
my opinion, $0 for this business.
Another huge business is this. You might
say, "What the heck is this? Is this a
video game?" No. Robotics. Small robots.
Huge fleets of those. Actually, in June,
Amazon told us that they're launching a
new AI foundation model to power its
robotic fleet and deploys its millionth
robots. Okay. Amazon. For some reason,
everybody only talks about Tesla,
Nvidia, and maybe the privately held
companies as robotics plays. But Amazon
is the robotics play. Amazon, Google is
a robotics play as I've shown you with
the Gemini model that was released or
that was shown more recently. But Amazon
has over a million robots. Of course,
we're not talking about humanoid robots,
but we're talking about these types of
robots. Why is it such a big deal?
Again, when we talk about the
profitability and the scale of this
business, having autonomous robots run
24/7, do tasks today that they couldn't
do before, or even if they have slight
improvements from a profitability
standpoint, from an efficiency
standpoint, this is huge for a business
like Amazon. And so they say it right
here. We're also introducing a new
generative AI foundation model we've
designed to make our entire fleets of
robots smarter and more efficient called
Deep Fleet. This AI technology will
coordinate the movement of robots across
our fulfillment network, improving the
travel time of our robotic fleet by 10%
and enabling us to deliver packages to
consumers faster at lower cost. Again,
this might not seem a lot, 10%, but when
you look at the scale of Amazon's
business, 10% is very, very big. And so,
do not sleep on Amazon as a robotics
play. Last thing here, we do have an
analyst note on Amazon from Mizuho.
Outperform rating price target $300. The
upside here is 35% based on the current
price of the stock. The key takeaways
are AWS growth expected to be 22% or
more in 2026 versus the consensus number
of just 20% growth. Entropic is scaling
compute demand which will support AWS
acceleration. Genai proliferation to
boost inferencedriven compute demand and
North America retail growth seems
slightly overstated but AWS plus retail
margin gains are more critical.
Basically, the story is AWS growth
reaceleration. Right now, when we look
at the stock, we are here below the
50-day moving average, but over the 100
and the 200 day moving average. RSI is
pretty neutral right now. It did reach
here a peak at around $248
or so. Amazon is expected to report its
next quarterly figures at the end of
October. That's the estimated date at
the moment. So this is it about Amazon,
why it has underperformed the market in
the past and why I think it will
outperform the market in the future. Why
it remains one of my favorite companies
to own. This is it. Share your thoughts
down in the comment section below. Hit
all the buttons. Check out fiscal.ai
down in the description in the pin
comment. And I'll see you all in the
next one. Bye-bye.
[Music]