if I had to choose one food that I would
recommend eating every single day for
amazing health benefits that would be
eggs eggs are Mother Nature's
multivitamin and in this lesson I'm
going to share with you some incredible
things that will happen inside of your
body if you ate just four eggs with the
yolk every single day this is going to
be really controversial it might piss
off your cardiologist but we'll get into
the research on why I chose eggs as that
one superfood to consume every day for
at least the next 30 days the right way
to shop for eggs how to cook your eggs
and if eggs actually increase risk of
heart disease you know one of the big
things that people say when it comes to
eggs the reason why you might be
avoiding it is this eggs cause heart
disease because it's high in cholesterol
it's high in saturated fat there's a
term called lipophobic lipophobic is a
fear of dietary fat based off of 50 plus
years of propaganda and misinformation
and there is a reason to be scared of
heart disease because heart disease is
the number one killer in the United
States as you can see a person dies from
heart disease in the United States every
33 seconds one out of every five deaths
which is about
695 deaths every single year but the
question is is it cholesterol saturated
fat and eggs that are causing this well
we have been fed a whole bunch of lies
from this guy right here and if you
understand this you understand why eggs
are not the cause of heart disease they
actually do the complete opposite and
protect your heart and protect heart
disease this guy is named anel keys and
back in the 1950s he had a hypothesis
that the countries that have the highest
risk of heart disease are the same
countries that consume a lot of
cholesterol and saturated fat so he did
a a 22 country study and he actually
faked his data and this is why we think
this day that eggs are bad for you he's
looked at 22 count IES to prove his
hypothesis that cholesterol causes heart
disease but out of those 22 countries
only seven of them showed a correlation
and those seven countries were Australia
the United States Canada England Italy
and Japan he just didn't share the other
countries he just omitted that data but
here's the thing out of those seven
countries that had the highest rate of
heart disease he said they were
consuming the highest amount of
cholesterol and saturated fat but they
were not consuming real cholesterol real
saturated fat like eggs for example they
were consuming fake fats trans fats
margarine and he gave this data to the
United States government and that's
where the lowfat Crave boomed and to
this day we're dealing with this
misinformation and prop again and the
reason why anel Keys the reason why your
cardiologist and maybe you watching or
listening think that eggs cause heart
disease is because when they look at
autopsy victims and they look at the
arteries of of victims that suffered a
heart attack a stroke heart disease they
see a lot of this waxy substance built
up in the arteries another words they
see a lot of cholesterol built up in the
arteries and they say oh look that's why
they had the heart attack look at all
the cholesterol built up it caused the
heart attack that is like saying every
time there's a fire in my neighborhood I
drive by and I noticed that there are
firefighters always at the scene of the
crime every time there's a fire there
are firefighters therefore they must be
the cause the firefighters must be the
cause of the fires because they're
always at the scene of the crime that
would a stupid hypothesis would you
agree why are the firefighters there to
put out the fire why is the cholesterol
there to put out the fire of the body to
put out the inflammation cholesterol is
an antioxidant cholesterol is a bandid
it's not the cause it's actually there
to heal the arteries and to heal the
body and if you don't believe May which
I don't want you to just blindly believe
in you we'll get into some research but
this guy right here Dr Philip aadia came
on my metabolic Freedom podcast he is
the number one heart surgeon in the
entire world and he's going to share
with you what he believes is the only
cause of heart disease and guess what
it's not eggs check out this clip from
Dr aadia forms of heart disease uh but
the most common form is what we call AOS
scerotic heart disease the buildup of
plaque within the arteries of of the
heart uh that can ultimately lead to
things like heart attacks uh and when
you look at atherosc orotic heart
disease it really comes down to one
major factor and that is damage to the
blood vessel wall that is the inciting
event that has to happen for these
plaques to start to build up um now what
causes that damage that's where we get
into some different factors B ones yep
the big ones are going to be insulin
resistance uh first you know and
foremost probably the most common
problem today uh smoking is another big
one uh now we've done a pretty good job
at cutting down on the smoking rates and
you know that ultimately is what led to
some of the improvements we saw around
heart disease uh you know throughout the
1980s
1990s uh and you know up until about
2000 when that downward Trend that we
were seeing started to go back up again
um and um you know probably high blood
pressure is the other most common one we
see but again high blood pressure acts
via insulin resistance so it really
comes down to insulin resistance and
then other toxins that damage the blood
vessels smoking being the most common
but there are other things like um heavy
metals uh air pollution things like that
that can uh cause that as well but
ultimately we have to come back to
damage to the blood vessel wall to the
lining of the blood vessel as the root
cause of heart disease there you have it
from a heart surgeon only one cause of
heart disease damage to the blood
vessels now what contributes to that he
didn't say cholesterol he didn't say
eggs he said number one the most
important thing is insulin well you're
going to see as I go through some of
these studies that eating eggs actually
sensitize and other words lower insulin
levels and reduce risk of heart disease
and here's another shocking study look
this is in 2009 this study showed that
more people die with heart disease with
normal to low cholesterol than high
cholesterol it said almost 75% of heart
attack patients fell within the
recommended targets of LDL cholesterol
okay it's not high LDL or high
cholesterol that's a problem we'll
unpack towards the end of this lesson
the best lab values to test for to
really assess your risk of heart disease
after we get through the egg
conversation this is a study showing
what the Statin industry made in 2023
the global Statin Market reached $15.4
billion in 2023 so why the heck would
big Pharma and big government and your
cardiologists want you to know the truth
that cholesterol doesn't caused heart
disease and more people die with low
cholesterol than high cholesterol from
heart disease when they're making $15.4
billion a year those are 15.4 billion
reasons why they do not want you to know
the truth another gentleman I brought on
who has a PHD brilliant researcher Dr
Anthony J he's been on the metabolic
Freedom podcast before he's going to
discuss why cholesterol is vital for
Health and Longevity and why statins
these are medications to lower
cholesterol is a huge problem this
clip's going to blow your mind check
this out if your total cholesterol is
120 the doctor will come into the office
and he'll patch you on the back and
he'll say I'm so proud of you keep up
the good work you are the the absolute
model of good health and yeah your
testosterone is also 120 instead of 600
and yeah you have no energy and no sex
drive but look at your cholesterol I'm
so pleased so ridiculous dude I actually
read I remember reading a study maybe
you could you maybe you know the study
that more people actually die from heart
disease with normal to low cholesterol
than high cholesterol have you seen that
as well oh yeah for sure and to be
honest you know as long as you're if you
start getting to 3 400 some people are
at 600 I mean yeah there's some problems
there especially with your triglycerides
I met a guy this last year at deer
hunting camp he's like a family I hunt
with this family and it was like an
extension of their family and his his
triglycerides were
900 wow you're supposed to be like below
100 I mean let's be honest Jes so his
blood is literally like like grease I
mean and my dad talks about because so
my my dad is a doctor my brother's an
orthopedic surgeon and they'll talk
about like yeah if you're doing surgery
and somebody just ate pizza or something
their blood will be greasy like if if if
you're eating somebody who's eating like
seed oils and fast food and stuff it's
physically greasy it's gross if your
triglycerides are that high so his his
triglycerides were that high because of
probably seed oils vegetable oils and
carbohydrates and sugar it's just the
inflammatory foods right and no exercise
on top of all that yeah you can't get
that High I mean that's like Guinness
Records High yeah that's insane you know
I I recently did I recently did a uh
carnivore 40-day carnivore protocol last
summer I did I I did a whole bunch of
lab work on day one I got my LDL
particles NMR profile HDL triglycerides
I got my C reactive protein homocysteine
I did a comprehensive panel on day one
and then I ate nothing but animal fat
and cholesterol from animals for 40 days
and then I did it on day 40 and yeah my
cholesterol went up my ldls went up as
well but everything else improved my my
CED reactive protein was 1.1 on day one
it went down to 0.5 on day 40 my
homosysteine was like 6.5 went down to
five on day 40 uh my A1C dropped the
point My fasting insulin also improved I
mean I saw all these improvements right
so it flies in the face of conventional
wisdom which says which says if you're
eating all that fat and cholesterol from
animal products you're going to increase
your risk of heart disease what I just
did I saw the exact opposite so I'm sure
you've seen that before Oh 100% well I
did my PhD on cholesterol you know and
oh what's sad is most of the people in
that field they're taking statant even
though the research is very obvious that
like how damaging they are and how and
what the optimal levels should be for
your I mean if people want to look at a
study there's a study called total
cholesterol and all cause mortality and
it had 12.8 million people if you just
SE Google search quote unquote total
cholesterol all cause mortality 12.8
million people you'll find the study and
look at figure two in that study and
you'll see the optimal levels for total
cholesterol the research is very clear
now as soon as you get above 200 on your
total cholesterol the doctors come into
the office and they're all sweaty and
they say I'm sorry to inform you you're
gonna die any minute unless we get you
on some Statin and it freaks people out
right like they've done this to me
that's why I know and I take the
prescription because I can't even argue
with them I have a freaking PhD on this
topic I did five years researching
cholesterol I can't sit down and show
them the data and argue I've tried that
so what I have to do now is just take
the prescription smile shake their hand
walk out and throw it on the trash on
the way out the door there you have it
from Dr Anthony J he was spoton with his
assessment another clip here from Dr
Nathan Bryant who's a world-renowned
nitric oxide researcher he's going to
share with you how having low
cholesterol strips nitric oxide leading
to erectile dysfunction and heart
disease you will not believe this clip
let's check this out let's play it
together that you're more concerned if
somebody has a total cholest ol of less
than 200 versus somebody who has a
higher cholesterol explain that and what
it does to block nitric oxide our body
makes cholesterol and so our body
doesn't make mistakes if our body needs
cholesterol our body's going to make it
upon demand so we get cholesterol from
the diet we also get it through
endogenous production cholesterol is
also the backbone for things like
testosterone estrogen vitamin D so if
our cholesterol gets too low we can't
make hormones or vitamin D we have a
global epidemic of testosterone
deficiency in men and hormone imbalances
in women and vitamin D deficiency our
body heals itself right our body senses
what's going on then self-corrects but
if we have a drug that inhibits Andes
cholesterol production which is what a
Statin does then our body can't respond
so if it senses that we're not getting
enough cholesterol or we need to make it
then the body can't the consequences of
that are obviously obvious now statens
and trying to lower your cholesterol is
an issue I can tell you this my total
cholesterol last time I checked was over
400 total LDL was over 350 or around 350
but every other marker which will go
over later were optimal meaning my risk
of heart disease was really low even
though my total cholesterol and total
ldia was really high more on that a
little bit later now we see these
products these fake egg products I'm
going to call out this company called
just egg made from Plants I mean you
simply just need to look at the
ingredient list don't fall for the
brilliant marketing and you can see that
the ingredients in this toxic Franken
food product is water M being protein
canola oil one of the most inflammatory
oils you can consume that dramatically
raises inflammation and disease in your
body and a whole bunch of preservatives
you know human beings are the only
species smart enough to create their own
food and dumb enough to actually eat it
if you compare the ingredients from just
egg to an egg it's a dramatic difference
with an actual egg there's no ingredient
list cuz it's just the egg with this
fake Franken food you have a whole list
of things you cannot even pronounce
cholesterol is the building blocks of
your cell and cell membranes eating eggs
repairs your body at a cellular level
let me show you exactly what I mean by
drawing the cell with you today and if
you're listening on the podcast I will
explain in a way that you understand but
if you go to youtube.com/ Kamp you can
watch this lesson so this is what I mean
by cholesterol supporting you at the
cell level this is one cell that's a
pretty good Circle that I drew you have
seven
trillion of these cells inside of your
body every cell has a lipid by layer
this little fatty layer called the cell
membrane it is the intelligence the life
of your body the intelligence is within
the cell membrane within your cells you
have your DNA nucleus you have these
little organel called the mitochondria
that produce energy called ATP and
what's integrated into your cells and
receptor site excuse me membranes for
the cells are receptor sites these
receptor sites are the most important
functions inside of your body the cell
membrane works with these receptor sites
Dr Bruce Lipton has proven that your
genetics your genes are not the
intelligence it does not run the show he
has removed the DNA nucleus from cells
observed what happened next and the
cells went on to function just fine for
months but if he destroyed the cell
membrane instant death because life
begins and life ends at the cell
membrane it's The Bodyguard of your
cells here's why it's so important you
have hormones inside of your body over
600 of them but we could talk about
testosterone and estrogen and
progesterone and thyroid hormone all of
these hormones are chemical Messengers
they need to be picked up by these
receptor sites that are integrated into
the membrane for your mitochondria to
produce energy for genes to be turned on
and turned off for you to burn fat for
you to feel good you also have the food
you eat which are nutrients that also
come from supplements you take this also
has to be picked up by your receptor
sites and oxygen as well if you don't
get oxygen into the cell you develop
cancer and disease if you don't get
nutrients into the cell you develop
nutrient deficiencies if you don't get
hormones into the cells you gain weight
and have hormone resistance and thyroid
issues what allows the cells to
communicate with the hormones is the
membrane if there's inflammation on that
membrane there's going to be
interference it's like if I hit mute on
my microphone right here I will try to
be communicating with you I could shout
at you you could take more hormones take
all the supplements do oxygen therapy
but the message will not be received
you're going to be frustrated I'm going
to be frustrated there's going to be
symptoms and eventually disease you can
see how important how crucial the cell
membrane is okay the most important
question that we could ask at this point
is if the cell membranes are that
important for Health and Longevity and
fat loss what feeds the cell membrane
what are the building blocks of the cell
membrane what's the cell membrane made
of do you know the answer the cell
membrane's made of protein cholesterol
ooh that's a bad word and saturated fat
all right what's the composition of eggs
protein cholesterol and saturated fat
eggs are Mother Nature's superfood eggs
with the yolk have protein saturated fat
and cholesterol it lowers inflammation
at the cell membrane level and allows
hormones nutrients and oxygen to do
their job and allows you to thrive and
I'll share with you in a minute some of
the amazing things that will happen
inside of your body when you eat four
eggs per day for the next 30 days let's
go back to this presentation cholesterol
is also the building blocks of your
entire endocrine system it starts with
cholesterol as you can see right here
that cholesterol turns into all of these
amazing hormones pregnanolone
progesterone eventually getting to Oster
cortisol testosterone thyro thid hormone
estral if you lack cholesterol because
you're not eating eggs maybe you're
taking a Statin eating a lowfat diet
you're starving all of your hormones
you're starving your brain you're not
going to function the way that you were
designed so what we need to do is what
Alvin Toffler taught many years ago he
said the illiterate of the 21st century
it's not those who cannot read and write
but those who cannot learn unlearn and
relearn what we have been taught about
eggs causing heart disease we need to
unlearn and relearn it's called The
George castanza effect how many of you
know this guy George castanza there was
an episode on Seinfeld George castanza
was a character on this this uh this
comedy show called Seinfeld you might
have watched it it was one of my
favorite shows back in the day and
George castanza was a miserable man he
was getting poor results he was
unhealthy he was unhappy he was broke he
was getting terrible results and he had
a brilliant idea on one of these
episodes he said I'm going to do
everything opposite of what I've been
taught and what I have been doing and
I'm going to see if doing the opposite
improves my life so he implemented this
George castanza effect and everything in
his life improved he was happier he was
healthier he started making more money
he started dating beautiful women all
because he did the complete opposite of
what he had been taught so what you've
been taught by your cardiologists by
mainstream news by the government and
the sick care system apply the George
castanza effect do the complete opposite
and you're going to go down the right
path you're going to get results in your
life studies show that eggs do not cause
heart disease studies show it actually
protects you from heart disease here's
one study titled dietary cholesterol
from eggs increase plasma HDL
cholesterol in overweight men consuming
a carbohydrate restricted diet let's go
down to the highlighted portion here
plasma hdlc okay high density
lipoprotein count HDL is one of the most
important blood markers to test for for
heart disease that actually protects
your blood vessels from getting damaged
Dr Philip avadi explained why you don't
want to damage your blood vessels it's
the only cause of heart disease when you
have optimal amounts of HDL it's like a
janitorial system sweeping out plaques
and proteins and junk within the
arteries so this study showed that those
who consumed eggs had an HDL plasma hdlc
concentration increased in the egg group
whereas the hdlc group did not change in
the subgroup plasma glucose
concentrations in fasting subjects did
not change 18 subjects were classified
as having metabolic syndrome at the
beginning of the study whereas three
subjects had that classification at the
end all right that means that 15 people
reversed their metabolic syndrome by
eating eggs these results suggest that
including eggs in a carbohydrate
restricted diet results in increased
hdlc while decreasing the risk factors
with metabolic syndrome that's one study
this study titled dietary cholesterol
serum lipids and heart disease are eggs
working for or against you this study
came to the following conclusion chronic
daily egg intake does increase
ldlc to a certain extent an individual
was classified as hyperresponders
however ldlc responses are typically
minimal when eggs are consumed during
weight loss conditions egg intake shifts
ldr particles to the less detrimental
large LDL subclass those are pattern a
large fluffy protective for your
arteries great for your immune system
and does not appear to affect the
oxidized LDL egg intake also typically
increases hdlc we just established that
in the previous study and the
concentration of large HDL especially
with weight loss these changes appear to
coincide with improvements of other
markers of LDL function as well as
cholesterol Etc the effect of egg intake
on ldlc and hdlc ratio is negligible
during weight maintenance and weight
loss conditions this is the same study
this is a graph from the study you can
see what happened ldlc did go up in some
of the hyperresponders I'm one of those
people I'm a hyperr by the way but the
shifts in the LDL particles was the most
important thing because either the
inflammatory small LDL stayed the same
or went down but the large fluffy went
up and the HDL went up especially those
who lost weight which is protective so
you can see it's not what you think when
it comes to eggs one of the things that
we want to look at with LD L which I'll
talk a little bit about later is the
particle sizes it's not as simple as
what you see here HDL good LDL bad it's
the particle count which I'll get to a
little bit later so what happens when
you start eating eggs four eggs a day
for the next 30 days well eggs are rich
in a and high quality protein all it has
essential amino acids second to breast
milk by the way it has key nutrients
like choline which is amazing for your
liver so many people struggle with fatty
liver disease choline is the most
important nutrient for the liver lutein
and Z is zanine is great for vision and
preventing macular degeneration high
quality omega-3 fats which help with
inflammation and all the fat soluble
vitamins highlight lesser known benefits
so by eating the eggs you're going to
notice more energy throughout the entire
day less joint pain and mental Clarity I
already showed this but it's a complete
protein one egg is about 6 to seven gram
of protein eating four gets you over 24
27 or so grams of protein uh choline as
I mentioned great for the brain and the
liver vitamin D where you have chronic
vitamin D deficiency it's not just a
vitamin a steroid hormone eggs give you
a good supply of that B vitamins in eggs
B2 B5 B12 which are vital for energy
production and red blood cell formation
and then it also contains a good amount
of selenium important for thyroid
function I mentioned it has lutein and
zanthin great for protecting you against
U any eye conditions and eye diseases
out there you're going to burn Melly fat
when you consume four eggs per day
especially when you combine it with a
low carbon diet eggs help with insulin
resistance this study showed research
suggests that whole egg consumption
including the Yol May provide beneficial
effects on insulin sensitivity
particularly in individuals with
metabolic syndrome or type two diabetes
in a 12we randomized control trial
participants consuming two eggs per day
okay I'm telling you to do four you get
double the results showed improvements
and insulin sensitivity as measured by
the hom IR test the study found that
fasting glucose levels and insulin
resistance significantly decreased in
the group consuming eggs compared to
those who did not include eggs in the
diet so how do you purchase your eggs
you want to avoid these marketing terms
cagefree free range while it sounds good
they don't guarantee the chickens had
significant outdoor access or the
healthiest conditions these terms can
sometimes be misleading so instead
prioritize pasture raised eggs or
organic eggs look for pasture raised
eggs that come from chickens that are
allowed to roam Outdoors eating a
natural diet including grass and insects
and they get plenty of sunshine these
eggs tend to be higher in omega-3 fatty
acids vitamin D and antioxidants like
lutein and xanthine you could also check
for organic certifications this comes
from chickens that are fed organic non-
GMO feed and are raised without
antibiotics or hormones the best way to
cook your eggs let's talk about that you
don't want to overcook your eggs cuz
that could oxidize the cholesterol and
that can be problematic so you want to
stay away from hardboiled eggs or overly
scrambling your eggs you want to avoid
that and instead do a soft scramble
poaching your eggs or soft boiling your
eggs so any of these three options right
here for the next 30 days make sure when
you eat the four eggs per day it's
either soft scrambled poached or soft
boiled eggs and cook your eggs in
grass-fed ghee if you want to maximize
your anti-inflammatory and fat loss
results research on grass-fed geese
suggests it can be beneficial for
managing insulin resistance particularly
due to its content of berate berate is a
short chain fatty acid and berate has
been shown to help regulate insulin
levels and reduce inflammation both of
which are crucial for improving insulin
sensitivity studies in animal models
have demonstrated that butay can prevent
and reverse diet induced insulin
resistance and while more human trials
are needed the current evidence is
promising in human studies ghee made
from grass-fed butter that is the key
contain a a rich and high amount of
conjugated linolic acid CLA which has
been associated with improvements in
lipid profiles and insulin sensitivity
consuming moderate amounts of ghee
particularly in the context of a
balanced diet May support natural
insulin secretion and help maintain
healthy blood sugar levels so you want
to cook your eggs in grass-fed ghee now
you could also use other fats and oils
here are the oils you do not want to
cook your eggs in these are highly
highly inflammatory do not cook any of
your food especially the eggs in these
oils canola SL rape seed oil corn oil
soybean oil cotton seed oil safflower
oil refined peanut oil sunflower oil
grape seed oil and rice brand oil
instead if you want to choose something
else other than the ghee here are some
good options as well real olive oil
that's not cut real avocado oil that's
not cut make sure they're both organic
grass-fed butter duck fat lard coconut
oil and beef Tallow these are saturated
and mono unsaturated fats really
important for the cell membrane
structure when I go to restaurants let's
say you get an omelette at a restaurant
get eggs at a restaurant as part of your
four eggs per day protocol for the next
30 days and they're cooking in seed oils
they're probably going to do that
present to them this seed oil allergy
card where it shows you're allergic to
the bad oils use healthier oils and
they'll make that swap for you if you
scan this on the screen or if you go to
seed oilc card.com or click the link in
the notes down below you can get the
seed oil allergy card for free all right
let's get to the common questions you
submitted on YouTube on this topic when
I eat eggs I get loose stool or diarrhea
what should I do that's a sign of your
liver not producing healthy amounts of
bile when you have a sluggish liver it
produces thick sluggish bile then you
cannot break down fats like eggs and
then you get diarrhea and loose stool so
the goal is to support your liver you
could take a digestive enzyme with Oxo
you could drink digestive bitters you
could consume bitter rich foods like
arugula dandelion greens lemon lime uh
Ginger artichokes rikio even coffee
organic coffee is a bitter so you want
to support the liver if that's happening
to you second question is should I
combine eating four eggs per day with a
low carb diet absolutely research shows
a low carb diet or a very low
carbohydrate diet like a keto diet or
keto approach very beneficial for
inflammation for fat loss insulin
resistance type 2 diabetes metabolic
syndrome high blood pressure so if you
can combine four eggs per day with a low
carb or very low carb approach for the
next 30 days you're going to
significantly enhance your results but
if you didn't change anything with your
diet and added four eggs per day you'll
still get results question number three
what are your thoughts on consuming raw
eggs if you could find a high quality
egg and you know it's safe and it's not
contaminated maybe from time to time you
could have it Rocky style but I'm not a
fan of raw eggs in general raw egg
whites if you did that that could be an
issue some people do that it contains a
protein called avidin which binds
strongly to Biotin and prevents the
absorption in the gut overc consumption
of raw eggs over time can lead to biotin
deficiencies causing hair thinning or
hair loss skin rashes fatigue or even
neurological symptoms such as depression
so cooking not neutralizes that protein
avidin so in general lightly cooking the
eggs probably better than raw eggs
question four besides testing
cholesterol LDL HDL I I mentioned those
already what else can I test for to know
if I'm at risk of heart disease good
question I would say first and foremost
another test to add in was would be a
hemoglobin A1c our red blood cells keep
a record of your Behavior and the A1C
looks at the last 3month averages of
your blood sugar levels a normal A1C on
and I'm putting that on quotation marks
for those in the podcast is below 5.7%
and if you're between 5.7% to 6.4% this
indicates diabetes if you're at 6.5% or
higher this indicates full-on diabetes
but you don't want to be in the standard
reference range and if your A1C is high
for example over 7.5% for at least one
year you lose 100 days off your lifespan
every year it's at that level or higher
in other words if you're hemoglobin A1c
is at 7.5% or higher for 15 years you
lose four years off your life it
dramatically increases your risk of
heart disease so you want to make sure
your A1C is at 5.2% or lower it's a
blood test get that done then we have a
fasting insulin a fasting insulin is one
of the most important tests for your
metabolism and your risk of heart
disease going back to heart surgeon Dr
Philip badia what did he say at the
beginning of this lesson insulin spikes
insulin resistance is a huge risk factor
for heart disease so you want to test
you want to test a fasting insulin and
you want your fasting insulin to be
between three and seven single digits is
the key anything higher is a problem
then we have homosysteine which is a
blood test high homosysteine levels have
been linked to many health problems
including heart disease dementia and
Alzheimer's when homosysteine cannot be
converted to other compounds it builds
up in the body and may cause damage B
vitamins play a very important role here
so you want your homoy to be in the
single digits between 5 and seven
standard reference ranges are under 14.5
not good then we have high sensitivity C
reactive protein also called
hscrp most cardiologists will say this
is the gold standard for assessing your
risk of a cardiovascular event it's an
important marker for systemic
inflammation
and you want to make sure your hscp is
at 0.5 or less that's 0.5 mg or less the
standard reference range is 0 to
3.0 not good make sure it's 0.5 or less
hdlc we already discussed why that's
beneficial but you want your ranges of
HDL to be between 60 and 90 migr per
deciliter Dr Anthony J spoke a little
bit about that earlier triglycerides are
another Blood marker you want to get
done high levels of triglycerides can
increase your risk of obesity heart
disease diabetes and other chronic
health conditions triglycerides can be
stored in fat tissue or can be used for
energy for example the body can release
Thor fats into the bloodstream as fatty
acids when you don't eat for a prolonged
time so you want to make sure your
triglycerides are not in the standard
reference range of under 150 mg per
deciliter but instead under 90 mg per
deciliter would be considered optimal
for triglycerides you also want to get
your total triglycerides total HDL and
you want to divide it it's a really
important metric and as you get that
measurement you want to make sure your
range is at 1.5 or less let me unpack
how to do this let's say you get your
blood test for your HDL and
triglycerides and let's say your
triglycerides are 137 which is a little
higher than what we would like 137 you
put that in the calculator you're going
to divide that by your HDL let's say
your HDL was 47 so divided by 47 equals
2.91 way above that optimal range I'll
give you another example now of the
optimal range you want to hit let's say
your triglycerides are 59 you'll divide
59 by let's say your HDL is 65 which is
pretty good you get 0.9 you're below
that 1.5 range that's a good marker to
test for so get that test done because
this is a huge risk factor for heart
disease then you want to get the
particle sizes done of your LDL not just
total LDL but get a test called the NMR
profile which stands for nuclear
magnetic resonance and you want to make
sure your small sticky particle count
your small ldlp is less than 527 and the
majority is from the large fluffy
particle count that gives you the full
picture on whether or not you're at risk
of heart disease I know there was a lot
there you might want to rewatch or
relisten to this and I'm excited for
those who are going to take action with
this eat those four eggs per day buy
them from the right sources cook them
the right way use the right fats to cook
them in four eggs per day yes you could
do more if you want but I would at least
do four per day for the next 30 days and
I want you to come back and let me know
how it goes for you share this episode
with a friend and if you're bold enough
share this episode with your
cardiologist if you enjoyed this video I
recently released a video on the best
diet for burning visceral fat the fat
around your organs you could shred fat
in 14 days with this protocol check out
this clip and I'll see you in that video
the first step to burning visceral fat
is to lower a hormone called insulin
when this hormone insulin is elevated a
ton of visceral fat gets stored around
your belly this is a problem because
that visceral fat applies pressure to
your heart your kidneys to your liver
and your pain