Give me 58 seconds and I'll reprogram
your dopamine system to crave hard work
forever. The solution is to reensitize
your brain by taking boring breaks. That
means doing something less stimulating
than your work between work tasks. Stare
at a blank wall for 5 minutes. No phone,
just the wall. When you strip away
novelty, you reensitize your
dopamineergic system. This is how you
make boring things feel rewarding.
Suddenly hard work starts to feel more
engaging. The mistake is scrolling and
checking emails or doing stimulating
things in your breaks. Dopamine ends up
flooding your system. And now you need
an excess of stimulation just to feel
engaged. The harder you chase dopamine
outside of work, the harder work itself
feels. So take boring breaks, work for
45 minutes, stare at a wall for five.
This is one tool for accessing flow
state, that optimal state of effortless
focus. The better you become at doing
nothing, the better you'll end up at
doing