So now I can just uh go and start. Yeah,
you can see we have some here. I can go
to my slides. Perfect. And then I can
move on to the second slide. I can talk
about this. I can play the video. It's
engineering Sam.
H that is complicated. Can you reframe
the question please? I was thinking
about the Sor 3 app.
Yeah. One of the questions I get asked
the most is kind of how do you actually
use AI? let's say in your company or
just daytoday. So, uh today I just
wanted to make a video uh just an
example of how I use it and how I save
time, how I create what I think
personally is, uh a very good output and
my creativity and kind of what you can
do if you know how to use these tools.
So I wanted to do like a simple example
where I kind of take you from let's say
this is my in my business like my
company this is like a standard request
you can get sometimes so this could be
like something I get this offer we would
like to invite you to do a session on
context engineering for our company IT
department only audience we get the
offer like it's going to be a 60-minute
talk plus a Q&A when I think about this
I like to think about it like I want
everyone on there to remember this uh
session. I want to try to make it as
highly engageable as possible or
engaging I guess and I want to make it
uh uh optimized for the people that is
there. So I have some ideas how we can
actually use AI to optimize for this as
you will see soon. So let me just take
you through kind of my workflow, how I
think about this and how you can not
exactly do what I'm going to do today,
but you can take some tips from this and
turn it into what you can do. So let's
just start with the obvious thing. The
obvious thing we need to do is gather
context, right? On context engineering.
What is context engineering and how can
we use this? I have my own experience
that I'm also going to add in. Uh but
let's say I wanted to grab some more
information online here. So uh let's say
I went to YouTube. I found this video
here. I've seen this before. It's very
good. Advanced content engineering for
agent, right? What I want to do now is I
want to grab this video. I want to turn
this into text for my uh my talk uh that
we can do some derivative uh yeah
information gathering from this talk.
Right? So an easy way to do this is use
some kind of code. Right? And let's say
we head over to claude. I want to start
with uh I know there's like a YouTube
DLP Python we can do to get v YouTube uh
videos uh and turn them into audio
files. So I'm just going to start that
and my ID here is I want to use the open
AI API that's going to take a speech
that could be an MP3 file into text.
Right? So I'm just going to copy this
documentation here from OpenAI and save
the OpenAI context here. Okay. So let's
check back on claw now. It's ready to
write my code. So hopefully now this can
take any URL, right? So I'm just going
to copy the link, right? Let's test it
on this URL. Okay. Okay. So it says
downloading complete. So let's go to
cursor now. And yeah, you can see here
we have um 14 minute audio file here.
Hi everybody. Uh my name is Dex.
Okay, so this is me from the editing.
For some reason, I lost my audio here.
But basically, what I went ahead and did
now, I used the speechtoext model from
OpenAI. I turned that MP3 file we
created into text by using the speech to
text model. I guess it's whisper in the
API. And after that uh to get some more
context, I just wrote down uh what I
think context engineering is a bit about
my idea how you can gather context
around if you want to build some
projects. and I end up with two files we
can now use to build out our uh
presentation. So yeah, that was just a
quick recap of what I did here. Okay, so
let's just drop uh our context file here
and let's do the same with my context,
right? And let's do a prompt here in
chat GPT GP5. Uh the prompt I'm going to
do is not nothing advanced. It's pretty
simple. So I'm giving a presentation on
context engineering. I uploaded the
context for my research. For my slides,
I want talking points in chronologically
order, short bullet points for each
topic. Let's define five main topics.
Also create mermaid diagrams to explain
flows related to context engineering and
other important relevant relevant maybe
things for my presentation. So this is
kind of my starting point. I'm going to
send this to GP5 and then I'm going to
evaluate and iterate. Okay. So here you
can kind of see uh an example of the
result we get. You can see what is
context engineering designing what the
model sees not just a prompt collect
shape in order info to guide LM better
input context better output why it
matters improve quality and reduces
errors. Yeah, I think this is fine,
right? So, how to use it? Do and don'ts.
Uh, and we got the mermaid chart. I
copied this mermaid chart and I put it
into claw because uh I wanted this into
an artifact because I'm going to show
you kind of trick we can do with this.
Okay, so this is kind of what we ended
up with. We have like a Yeah, you can
see this mermaid chart. We have this uh
inject run lm check path and we can go
back if we don't want to. Uh, but I want
to what I want to use this for is
something I can show you. So, I'm just
going to screenshot this. You can pick
any model. I'm I'm going to use nano
banana. So, here we have our flowchart.
So, now I'm going to do a prompt here to
try to make this uh kind of fit our um
style. So what I went ahead and did if
you remember uh when we got the kind of
the assignment here this is an IT
department and they have some AI
experience. So I always like to do my
presentations in like a team, right? So,
I decided this time to do like a Windows
95 team because it people usually have
some kind of nostalgia to that type of
uh teams. Okay. So, I know I said
Windows 95. What I meant was Windows XP
uh not 95. So, I think this is fine.
Here you can see we kind of get this uh
yeah uh yeah, we get the classic
background. So, I think I'm just going
to use this. Is this perfect? No. But
it's a bit more fun than just this uh
yeah boring stuff here. Right. Uh next I
want to do some video. So I'm going to
show you how I use kind of Sora just to
light up uh keep the engagement a bit
going right under my presentation. So
here we're just going to use the prompt
uh interviewer asks uh what is context
engineering Sam uh at Sama in his office
at OpenAI answers right awkward laughs
uh confused handheld camera. So, while
we wait for that, we're going to start
working on kind of my um presentation.
So, I'm just going to grab the
information we're going to use here. Uh
here I have a presentation domarkdown.
I'm just going to paste in that. We want
to make this a Windows XP theme. So, for
that, uh we're going to create a
website. So, I'm going to clear the
context here in Claude and I'm going to
give it a prompt. Okay. So, I lost my
recording there, but I said I'm making a
presentation on context engineering. I
tagged presentation.mmd.
I have prepared five slides with talking
points. It should be another cell stack
holded web page because I completely
stopped using PowerPoint presentations.
Uh I just use web pages now. It's so
easy to create with the uh agents like
cloud code. The theme of the page is
Windows XP. I have an image we uh we can
use. So that is of course the famous uh
yeah background here. And I want the
presentation to start with me clicking
on the start menu, finding context
engineering and launching to slide one.
Let's start with this and iterate more
later. So I put the cloud into plan mode
and it came up with a plan here. Right.
So we just going to uh do yes execute on
the plan. Okay. So we have gone through
a few iterations here and I think it
looks pretty good now. So let's head
over here. Let's do uh npm rundev. And
let's open up this locally.
And here you can see this is our
starting point. We have kind of the
classic windows. Maybe we should add
some kind of title here. I think let's
just do on the homepage create a title
overlay on the background. Context
engineering new line my name new line
date center center. I want to see if
that works. But let's take a look. Now
you can see we have the clock right? We
have the start menu. So here you can see
here's kind of my menu. Okay. So we got
the context engineering here. That's
pretty good. Uh now I can launch this by
clicking on this. And here we can see
this is kind of exactly we have this
window, right? We can close that down. I
guess we can't do that. But we can't uh
we can take a look at the slide. This
kind of looks like a Windows XP, right?
Uh it's not perfect, but it's this is
just kind of my yeah start. We have
slide two, three, four, and five. And we
also have kind of the show notes. We can
take a look at them. We can zoom in. The
presentation is just so much more
engaging and you don't have to spend a
lot of time on this. I have created like
a bunch of Sam Alman videos here. Uh I'm
going to put into the presentation and
when we kind of have the final version
of this, we're going to watch some of
the videos and see if that also kind of
elevates the engagement of the slides.
Okay. So the next step now is going to
be to actually put this on GitHub so we
can use Versel to actually launch this
because I have one more thing. If you
remember the request was a Q&A and I
have something I always use in my
presentations or talks that is engaging
for the audience too that I'm going to
show you kind of a simple way to do uh
at least if you have Versel set up like
I do. Right. So we're going to push this
uh web page into the repo. So if we
refresh here now, you can see uh we have
all the code here. Perfect. I'm just
going to try to deploy it. See if we
have any build errors. We might have
that. Okay, that was no problem. You can
see we deploy this. We got the domain AI
press- steel versus app. Uh it's not the
most interesting uh URL, but here it is.
So here's my presentation. It's
deployed. I can access this from
anywhere. I can open up here. I can see
my slides. Right, perfect. So yeah, no
issues here. And this means it doesn't
matter. I can bring my Mac. I can just
use any kind of computer on the site
where the presentation is going to be.
So yeah, deploying this has a lot of
advantages. But next, now we're going to
do something else. We're going to go
back here. We're going to go to storage.
And I created a database for my projects
because if you remember, we have a Q&A
session here. So what I'm going to do
now is something super easy that brings
the engagement of the presentation what
I think at least uh way up. Okay. So
what I went ahead and did now I said I
created a database for the presentation
and this database should be able to take
questions from the audience on a
page/QA. Create a simple form to submit
questions that would be displayed on
slide five or after slide five. Call it
questions. Pick five random from the DB.
So the idea here is now we are asking
cloud code to create a plan for this and
we're just going to execute this plan
and hopefully now we have like a Q&A
system the audience can engage with
throughout the presentation. Check it
out. Now if I refresh here and let's do
okay submit question. Let's try that. So
let me do something like
uh what is the
best aentic AI model? Okay. Uh let's do
Chris. Uh let's try this out. Submit.
Okay. So that was successfully
submitted. So how could we check this
now? I guess if we go here and we go to
context engineering. Let's go to the
last slide.
Loading questions. What is the best
agentic AI model? So this is something I
use in my presentations uh because now
we can take we can just put up the URL
in the beginning so the people can go to
this page and under the presentation
they can just submit questions I can
read at the end here. Uh but I want to
do one more thing. So let's do after
each slide do something. So what I want
is after each slide here uh I want a
question right? So I can get some
engagement from the audience. So, I'm
just going to do uh I want to have a
simple quiz about the AI. After each
slide, uh show the quiz. Let the
audience go to the page/quiz and vote
for what they think is the correct
answer. Display the votes in real time.
Create an AI quiz question between each
slide. Uh and use the DB and quiz page
uh to collection for votes. Now, I'm
just going to show you kind of how that
worked before I embed all the videos.
And let's take a look at the final thing
here. So let's say I go to my
presentation and finish talking about
slide one. Uh let's go to slide two now.
And you can see here is a quiz now. What
is the primary goal of context
engineering? And we have like four
options here people can look up. So if I
go to my yeah you can see my phone here.
I can go to this uh yeah quiz slide one
and I can vote to increase model size.
I'm going to submit my vote and you can
see in real time this updates. So this
is pretty fun when you're doing a
presentation and it's really engaging
for the audience instead of just sitting
there. So this is fun. Now we're just
going to do the videos for each slide
just for some banter and then I think we
are done. Okay. So now you can see I
have all my Sora clips here in my public
folder. Just going to try to do it
simple. So we have five clips in the
folder. So I'm just going to tag the
public folder. Embed the 916 clip into
each slide. Making sure we can click to
open in full screen. So I'm just going
to run this in cloud code. Hopefully
this get embedded. We can push this to
GitHub. Uh deploy on Versel. And let's
check it out on our yeah final uh
presentation. So now I can just uh go on
start. Yeah, you can see we have some
here. I can go to my slides. Perfect. So
now we kind of have the slide, right? Uh
I'm can I can talk about this. This is
kind of my idea. Just my talking points.
I can throw my notes if I wanted to. Uh
I don't need that. Uh we have the video.
So now we can kind of tease the video
and I guess we could play it at the end
of the slide before we move on. So let's
just do that.
An example of good context for an LLM.
Okay. So you get the point, right? So we
have some videos and uh when I'm done
with my first slide, I can go to my yeah
question for my quiz. What is the
primary goal of context engineering? I
can guide the audience to the page we
just had where they can vote for the
quiz if I wanted to include this and
then I can move on to the second slide.
Uh I can talk about this. I can play the
video.
It's engineering Sam
H that is complicated. Can you reframe
the question please? I was thinking
about the Sora 3 app.
Yeah. And here I have some more videos,
some more things to talk about. Okay. So
just to sum this up uh I just want to be
quick but basically this way of working
using these tools has given me a lot of
great feedback to be honest and uh
customize each presentation for the
audience I have been talking to has been
yeah I would say just very successful
and like I said the feedback and people
say I asked people when where did you
find out about me right and they say ah
we heard it from someone that was
listening to you talking about having a
presentation
And a lot of people enjoy kind of the
engagement. So this is the questions I
do, right? If you look at the ending
here, I guess I didn't show that now,
but if you go all the way to the end, I
have the questions and we of course have
the quiz here in between. People can
attend to uh sometimes is a bit of a
hassle, but people really like it. And
uh it's keep kind of the it keeps the
audience engaged throughout the whole
hour if that's what you're going to do.
So you can apply that to a bunch of
other things uh whatever you do. So this
was more like a general workflow but uh
yeah hope you can take something away
from this and start uh using these tools
to yeah level up what you do. So yeah,
thank you for tuning in. Have a great
day and I'll see you again soon. And by
the way, you can find the presentation
in the link in the description below if
you want to check it out. I'm going to
keep it up for a while. So yeah, have a
great