Chachi Fatig just launched their brand
new AI agent builder. And this is by far
the biggest update that they've ever
released because now anybody, even a
complete beginner, can build out AI
agents and AI automations that you can
sell or use for yourself. And what does
this mean? That you have to spend less
time doing complex or tedious tasks
because you can now automate them with
Chacht. By the end of this video, you're
going to know about several mind-blowing
use cases that you could use this for to
both save time and make some money. Use
case number one that I would strongly
suggest that you use this tool for is to
turn your chat GBT projects into AI
agents and AI workflows that either one,
you could have your team use, two, you
could have your friends, family, or
somebody else use, or three, you could
actually end up selling this because if
you're watching this video, I'm sure
that you use chatbt in order to build
out projects. For example, I have this
YouTube script writer project right here
that is incredibly valuable to me. This
allows me to write my YouTube scripts
incredibly quickly. In the past, this
used to take me hours to do, but now I
literally get it done in seconds because
of this project and the way that I
trained it. And guess what I can do now?
I can now sell this to people or give it
away for free because I can actually
build this out as its own standalone
agent that I can then put on my website
or behind a payw wall or wherever I want
it. Now, here's how you're actually
going to do that. You're going to click
into the project that you want to build
into its own standalone agent. You are
then going to come up here. You are
going to click on edit instructions and
you are then going to copy the
instructions that you have given this
agent. You're going to come back over to
this agent builder right here and you
are going to click start and then you
are going to add in whatever type of
agent you want. For this particular
example, this is going to be a YouTube
script writer. And then what I'm going
to do is I am going to replace the
instructions right here. And then I am
going to add this in right here. I want
you to be a YouTube expert script writer
that builds me scripts based on the
scripts from my past successful videos.
Every single response should make a
video that is 10 to 12 minutes long. Now
we could come in here and we can add in
context if we want. We can include the
chat history. We could change the model
that this uses if you found that other
models give you better results. We could
change the reasoning effort and all of
this jazz. And we can even come over
here and evaluate it. But what I want to
do with this one in particular is we're
going to click on tools right here.
We're going to click on file search and
then we're actually going to be able to
upload this because what makes this
project great is not the system
instructions, but instead the file that
I have actually uploaded here. So, what
this is going to allow me to do is come
over to my computer. I'm going to type
in script outlines 1 through three.
We're going to be able to do a search
for this and then find this document.
And then from here, I'm going to put
this in this agent. Okay, so I found
this right here. What I'm then going to
do, we're going to come back over into
this agent builder. I'm going to pull my
finder back up. I'm going to drag this.
And I am going to drop this over here.
And now this is going to have access to
this. We're going to come over here.
We're going to attach this. And then
from here, we could come over here and
actually preview this and see if it
works. So I'm going to use this the same
exact way that I would actually use this
over here. I'm going to come over here
and I'm going to scroll up and I'm just
going to grab this right here. I'm going
to come back over here. I'm going to put
title. I'm going to put this and then we
can actually preview how this actually
works and see what the agent is actually
doing. We could see that it's searching
through script examples. It's then
searching through these files right
here. And then this is going to go
through and reason and actually build
out a script which is pretty awesome
here because again I'm able to train
this with the knowledge, the data, the
proprietary information that I have.
Then I'll be able to give this away or
sell this and look at this. This goes
through and then scripts out videos
exactly how I actually want the video
scripted out. Now use case number two is
going to be building out your own AI
brain. I'm sure you've heard people talk
about this before in the past, but
essentially what this means is that you
can come in here and you can build out
an I brand. What you're going to do is
you are going to come in to create a new
workflow. If you don't see this
templates right here, you might just
have to come in and create a new
project. For some reason, under my
default project, it doesn't show. But if
I come over in a new project, it does
show. I think it's just a glitch that
they need to work out. But nevertheless,
you come over here into templates. You
will be able to come down here and find
internal knowledge assistant. What this
is going to be able to do is this is
going to be able to triage and answer
questions from employees. Now, you might
not have employees, but you might have
people that ask you questions. You might
have an audience that wants to ask you
questions, or maybe you just want to be
able to remember everything from
everywhere. What you're going to do is
you're going to click into this internal
knowledge assistant, and they already
have this built out as a template right
here. So, we have a start. We could see
that this then rewrites the user's
question in order to actually be better.
So you don't have to have your users be
an expert at actually using this. Then
this is going to classify this and this
is going to then classify the question
based on Q&A, factf finding or other.
And then what this is going to do is
actually handle this with three
different types of agents. An internal
Q&A, an external factf finding or just a
regular agent. And what you can do is
come in here and actually train each of
these. So you can then upload
knowledgebased like I showed you before.
Or if you click on tools right here,
guess what you can do? You can come over
into MCP server and you could add in a
bunch of different tools. You could give
this access to your Gmail. You could
give it access to your drive. You could
give it access to your Dropbox. You
could even give it your access to
thirdparty servers like this. So that
you can then have your team, you can
have your customers, you can have your
clients, you can have your audience come
over here and ask questions to this that
otherwise they would be asking you and
wasting your time. Now for use case
number three, I wanted to show you how
you could actually make this 100 times
more powerful. Because if we come back
over here and we click back into tools
and come back into MCP server, what
you're going to notice is yeah, there
are eight things here and a few things
here, but that is incredibly limiting.
So, what would make this more powerful?
What if you could connect this to a free
tool like rube.app where you can then
come into their marketplace and be able
to connect this to more than 800 apps
that can take over 50,000 actions. Well,
guess what? You could do that. And you
could do that for free. It's literally
as simple as you coming over here,
clicking on install group, and again,
this is free. You come over to this MCP
URL. You're going to copy this right
here. You're going to come back into the
agent. You're then going to click on
server. You're going to add in this URL.
You could label this right here rub mcp.
You can do rub mcp. And then from here,
you just have to come over here. We're
going to click on none. We're going to
click on connect. And now this is going
to go through and this is going to
establish a connection with RP. And then
guess what we're able to do? You are
then able to log in to all of these
different apps. There's literally
hundreds of them. And then you will be
able to have your agents on chatbt
access all of these. And this gives you
access to some pretty crazy things. For
example, browser use. It also allows you
to have complex chains. You just don't
have to hit one of these at once. You
could have this hit multiple things. For
example, it can hit Gmail. It can hit
Slack. And then it can post something on
X all in one chain from one prompt. In
addition to that, this drastically
reduces the number of agents that you
need to actually build out because you
can go through and establish this one
connection with Rub's MCP and then be
able to access all these different
tools. And the best part about Rube is
if you go to the pin comment below right
now, you can get started today for free.
Immediately, you're going to be able to
connect to more than 800 plus apps that
can take more than 50,000 actions and
help make your Chat GBT agents way more
powerful. Now, for use case number four,
you could actually use this in order to
build out a customer service bot for
your website or for your audience or for
your employees. For example, if we come
over here and click on customer service,
we can actually see exactly how this
works. And again, this is already built
out as a template and you literally just
have to go through and build out all
these different conditions and make it
specific to you and then also just give
this access to your different tools. So,
this right here is going to determine if
the user input is going to be
reasonable. So, it's a jailbreak guard.
Basically, it's just trying to make sure
that it's able to answer whatever it is.
And we could see what actually
determines that when we come over here
and we could see whether or not it's
text or if it fails, we could see why
it's going to fail. And then we can also
see what is actually going to happen.
So, as we come through here, really
what's important are these different
agents right here. We could see that
there's a return agent, there's a
retention agent, there's an information
agent. But what I would strongly suggest
that you do is actually go through here
and make these way more customizable.
Because if you click in here, then you
click in tools, then you come into MCP
server, guess what you can do? You can
hook this up to Shopify. You can hook
this up to Stripe. You can hook this up
to HubSpot or PayPal. And guess what
this allows you to do? This allows you
to see whether or not somebody's a
client. This allows us to see whether or
not there's any notes on this client.
This allows us to actually go through
and process refunds for people or find
out where somebody's order is or find
out when their refund's going to hit or
all things like that. And you can even
set this up to something like Zenesk
again by hooking this up to Rube. If we
come over here, type in Zenesk, we could
see that this is here. And you can
basically build out your own customer
service agent that reduces the amount of
time that you have to have humans doing
customer service because this can do so
many different things. In addition to
that, if we come over here, we can hook
this up to Calendarly or Google
Calendar. So now this can answer
questions. This can issue refunds. This
can book calls if you want this to also
do sales because remember the number one
way to sell somebody is to turn somebody
that's upset into a happy and a raving
customer because those are going to be
the people that are going to tell more
people about you. And you were able to
do that now simply by building out an
agent inside of chatb. Now I want you to
think about this because you don't just
have to do this for your business or
maybe you don't have a business that
you're going to do this for. You could
go through and build out these custom
solutions for other people and then sell
them. In fact, you could sell an agent
like this literally for thousands of
dollars and you could even charge them
for upkeep on it. And guess what? Chachi
BT literally has a template of how to do
this. And this is so easy that a
12-year-old could do this. Now, the last
type of agent and automation that I
would strongly suggest that you guys
build out is something that uses this
data enrichment. So, basically what this
does is you could put something in here.
This then calls on an agent and then
this calls on another agent to summarize
and display it. Now, this is incredibly
basic, but I want you to think about
this. If you were building out an agent
to analyze real estate deals or section
8 deals or somebody's tax returns or all
the different things that you could
upload into this because remember, if we
come over here and click on preview, we
can make it so you can upload certain
things in here. You can build out agents
that are niche for analyzing so many
different things. Again, think about
real estate, think about taxes, think
about financial related things, anything
that somebody could analyze. It could be
Facebook ads or Google ads. What you can
do is actually build out these agents
that are going to enrich the information
that is given. And then you could add
another agent on here. And I'm going to
use just this agent for example, but you
could add in custom instructions. You
could add in custom reasoning and
basically what you're doing is taking
advantage of the fact that people are
trying to do these things in chatbt in
COD in Gemini and they're not getting
the results that they want not because
these systems can't do this but because
they don't have the right instructions
or they're not calling the right tools
or they don't have access to the right
internal files like what I showed you
with the YouTube script writer earlier.
Now, if you enjoyed this video, I'd
strongly suggest you check out this
video right here that walks you through
exactly how you can build out AI agents
and AI automations with Chat GBT agent
builder. Check it out here.