late in 2024 lab has released the Oz one
and it has a ton of critical Acclaim but
you might be thinking Gabe you L the df3
you put it in your bag earlier this year
is the osw one a better putter well on
today's video I'm going to attempt to
answer that question we're going to put
it to the test out here at carolwood
Country Club there are a lot of
similarities between these two Putters
there's a lot of differences too but are
those differences better is the o one
the better putter we're going to explore
it here today now before I start testing
these two Putters I want to mention
we're giving away an oz one and we are
so very close to pulling a winner
because at 100,000 subscribers we're
going to pull a name and we're only a
couple hundred away right now so this is
basically your last opportunity to enter
I can't wait to give an oswan putter
away to one of you the details are down
in the description now let's take a
closer look at these two magnificent
Putters from lap well here's a look at
both Putters here on our right the df3
and the new o one on the left going to
be a much more traditional look and a
little bit easier to get used to if
you've ever used like a half moon Mallet
this is going to pretty much set up that
way to your eye whereas the df3 is
pretty alien like I can't say I've ever
seen a putter quite like this one looks
Department a lot of people are going to
prefer the Oz one I will say though I do
like the oversized nature of the df3
personally as you can see both of these
have a t alignment but you can customize
this alignment if you go for a custom
option on the website to pretty much
anything that your heart desires also
I've got a forward leaning shaft on both
of these but with the odd one you've got
a new Option this time time you can go
with a straight shafted Putter and I
tried that out on course I personally
preferred this one but a lot of people
are going to like again the shaft that
comes straight and does not forward
press because they're just not used to a
forward leaning shaft I think you see
more ball this way so I prefer it but
it's nice to have options you only have
options here with the Oz one looking at
the face of these Putters again big
difference with the Oz one for the first
time we've got an insert that's a steel
insert on that aluminum frame whereas
the df3 all aluminum with those lines
running parallel from the toe to the
heel whereas you've got some really nice
Milling there now I mentioned that
insert that's because this is the Osan I
I is for insert but you can opt in the
spring for no insert you can opt for it
to be fully aluminum like the df3 so
you've got options I've got these both
set up with press pistol grips although
you've got your choice of grips from Lab
I like this one because it keeps my
hands forward and it puts a nice roll
little Top Spin on that ball coming off
on both of these Putters I've got the
upgraded Acra shaft it's about $100
upgrade but this shaft is super sturdy
you're not going to get any Bend or Flex
which is what you do not want in putting
I like these Acura shafts but it is an
upgrade turning them over here you've
got eight weights on each Putter and
that is going to match your Li angle and
these Putters are balanced like no
others in fact lab has its own revealer
tool that shows just how perfectly
balanced they are but if you were ever
to spin one of these it has no bias it's
completely balanced and that's because
of those weights which is why you never
want to touch those weights huge part of
the technology here with lab now both of
these Putters will pick up a ball you
can do it through the center hole there
with the df3 and you got to scoop it up
through the back with the Oz one so on
paper there is more options available
here with the Oz one but does that make
it the better putter now it's time to
find out where here on the putting green
I'm going to start with a medium length
Putt and these are so important because
if you look at PJ tour averages those
guys are just about 50% just a hair
underneath it whereas us mere mortals
are more like 33% from this range 10 ft
or so this could be the difference
between you breaking 80 for the first
time or if you're a mid- handicapper
shooting in the 90s you could be in the
80s if you could make one or two more of
these per round let's see how we do with
these all right we're going to start off
here with the df3 now this shape to me
instills a lot of confidence but I know
a lot of folks think it looks very alien
I like this big oversized profile I love
seeing so much of that big long face and
after having used this putter I know
it's going to be very forgiving off the
toe and off the
heel I know a lot of folks are going to
prefer the Oz one though it is a smaller
profile and it's a little bit more
traditional can you get used to this by
eye that's a big issue for a lot of
folks didn't get the line right there
what makes these Putters both of them so
good is that it takes away a huge part
of the putting equation which is keeping
the face Square to the path as long as
you get the line right as long as you
get the speed right you're going to make
more of these
putts I didn't do that that time let's
see if I do it this
time yes all right two on a three there
that is really really good now let's
switch over to the Oz one again much
smaller profile again you still see the
full face there the way this shaft is
tilted but I think I do prefer the df3
in terms of
looks not going to be the case for
everybody
though missed that first one let's see
if we can improve on
that that one was a great example of not
making great contact I hit that towards
the heel and I didn't lose any speed and
I didn't
tug it or push it or anything like that
it stayed Square that's what these
Putters do so well I didn't deserve to
make that Putt and yet it went
[Music]
in and we're two for three there with
the Oz one so medium putt test so far a
draw let's go to a long putt test and
see if we can start to learn about some
more differences between these two
hardle send a three putt in golf so
let's see if we can avoid it the Oz
one's up first a big point of emphasis
for Adam Scott was feel and I have
noticed that you can absolutely feel it
when you hit it in the sweet spot in the
middle of this putter Mish hits are much
less noticeable with the df3 where it
feels pretty much the same anywhere you
hit it on the
face so that's a good thing I think in
the osan's favor they've done a great
job with sound and feel that was a
pretty good start there the other thing
I notic with both of these Putters is
when you take a a big long arcing swing
sometimes with a traditional putter I
pull them I don't ever do that with
these ones they stay Square all the way
it's one less thing I got to worry about
it's
huge oh that could be
in come on get
cozy I really feel like the distance
control with the o one is excellent
three really good ones there df3 up next
now Noti with the df3 you've got to
swing it
harder got to take a bigger swing with
that one to me that can
sometimes make it a little bit more
difficult to control distance cuz you
got to get that length right whereas
with a shorter swing that has a little
bit more pop I feel like you can be a
little bit more consistent on long
putts I have enough G pass there see
it's exactly my
point there's just a little bit more
room for error when you have to swing it
a little
harder could
be pretty good yeah so all in all
definitely the closer putts here all
three of these are extremely makeable
oswan wins just by a hair these ones
aren't too bad but a little bit more
more work to do with the df3 all right
let's talk price of these next now they
are a little bit different in price but
they share one thing in common they're
both really expensive I wouldn't say
ridiculously expensive when you consider
that you're going to be putting the ball
30 times around you're going to be
pulling out your driver a maximum of 14
times around those things now going for
well over $600 from most of the big
manufacturers right now these Putters to
me honestly I think are well worth the
investment but there is a $50 difference
the df3 is going to be if you go for the
completely stock config figuration
$44.49 whereas the Oz one is going to be
$499 $50 difference also if you decide
to customize these Putters they'll start
with a $50 difference as well 559 for
the df3 and 599 for the Oz one so more
or less about a 10% price premium here
on the new release from Lab I think you
should not let that play a role in any
way in your decision- making if you're
willing to spend $500 on a putter spend
an extra 5050 in my opinion also I would
highly highly recommend and my friends
over at PJ Superstar won't enjoy me
saying this but don't buy these putter
stock send in a video to lab have them
hand make this putter for you have it
balanced to you to your Li angle they
will literally fit you with a video for
either of these Putters and I think that
is well worth the cost by the way to my
knowledge the only company that does
that while some of the other zero torque
Putters give you a few options maybe to
change the lie angle plus or minus 2Â° or
change the length of the putter apart
from that they're not balancing to my
knowledge these Putters all depending on
the person so huge huge benefit to going
custom with lab and so if you're going
to buy a lab putter do go custom I think
don't go stock all right time for the
short putt test here now what we're
going to do is create a little circle of
4ot putts and we'll put a little T next
to each ball so we put the other ball in
the exact same place for the next Putter
and we're going to work our way around
in a circle with some putts breaking
right to left some left to right some up
some down give us some different looks
here let's see which one comes out on
top now what I've notice with all of
these torque free Putters you have to
have a loose grip you cannot deathgrip
it because once you do you start to use
some different muscles that might add
some torque whereas if you can let the
pendulum swing just using the big
muscles the putter does all the work it
stays Square you make more of
these you just got to trust the putter
in your
hands now we're on a slope here so some
of these are going to start to break the
other direction
as we go and we started uphill now we're
looking like downhill
putts four for four so far that's a good
start saw more of that cup than I would
have liked let's see if we can finish
six for six
here we do all right a one's up
next that's
one that's
two I'm hitting these firm too as you
can see that one ran way past
which happens when you hit them
firm all right well five out of six
there with the Oz and the one I
missed honestly I think I just played
that break a little bit wrong a little
bit differently than the df3 now a
couple of those df3 hit a lot of that
hole they kind of Hit the edge of that
hole whereas these were all pretty much
dead center except for of course the one
we missed there so all in all both these
puts do an incredible job of staying
Square all right so wrapping things up
I'd say sound and feel absolutely go to
the OS one but in terms of confidence
and stilling the way it looks once you
get used to it df3 for me it did perform
better in the short putt test because I
think you do have to hit it a little bit
firmer and that's going to get you
online a little bit better and cutting
through any of those impediments on the
green whereas on the long putts that's
exactly why it worked in the Oz one's
favor because there is less to think
about either way you really can't go
wrong here with with either of these
Putters and I highly recommend if you
get the chance you try them both but
also I do recommend you go custom
because that is the huge huge advantage
to going lab when you're thinking about
a torque-free putter if you're already
going to spend the money spend a little
bit more and get it custom tailored for
you it will make a difference either way
great Putters I hope you enjoyed
watching this one and I'll catch you
back here next time on another edition
of let's play through
[Music]