this is a Pakistani girl adopted by a
Chinese couple and these are her
adoptive parents she has 1.6 million
followers on one hand she speaks fluent
Chinese in a local
[Music]
dialect and on the other she has a
completely foreign appearance unlike any
Chinese person this striking contrast
quickly captured the attention of
Chinese netizens and she became popular
in no time what's the touching story
behind her and her adoptive parents in
2002 Mr fan a Chinese construction
worker in Pakistan was walking home from
work when he suddenly heard the sound of
a baby crying following the sound he
found a baby girl lying in a corner but
her parents were nowhere around there
was no note no information just the baby
in a cardboard box Mr fan waited for a
while
thinking perhaps the parents had
encountered some Misfortune that forced
them to leave the baby temporarily but
the parents never returned Mr fan
decided to take the child back to his
place and care for her his wife was
shocked when she saw the baby Mr fan and
his wife had been in Pakistan for a year
working with a construction team they
had both been Farmers before choosing to
work abroad for a better income they
were in their 40s married for many years
but had no children children naturally
they started thinking about adopting the
girl they felt this was a gift from God
they reported the found baby to the
police in hopes of locating her
biological parents and began the process
of applying for adoption Unfortunately
they never found the baby's biological
parents but their adoption application
was approved and from that day on they
became the girl's parents perhaps it was
God's plan as fate had unknowingly
brought them together Mr fan and his
wife were Overjoyed to better care for
the girl they decided to return to China
and continue farming they gave the girl
a beautiful name fangha meaning the
crane of their Hometown in Chinese
culture the crane symbolizes health and
good fortune which was their wish for
the girl although they were a poor rural
Chinese family with low income they did
their best to give xha the best life
they could Mr fan would do temporary
work and every time he came home he'd
bring her toys jiaa said when we passed
the market dad would always buy me a
chicken leg but he never bought one for
himself they just wanted to give me the
best despite their hard work in the
fields they always told her to stay home
focus on her homework and studies and
aim to go to a good University and find
a good job people in the village gave
her the nickname little black girl and
often teased her about her dark skin
calling her a picked up child but Mr fan
and his wife would always stand up for
her saying our daughter is black and she
doesn't eat your food or drink your
water we're black and healthy we're
black and beautiful Mr fan was always
honest with xha telling her the truth
you're our daughter we found you in
Pakistan jha felt the deep love her
parents had for her and she never
thought it was strange a slight downside
is that jha's academic performance
wasn't great and in 2020 she didn't
manage to get into University
considering the family's financial
difficulties she decided to go out and
work taking a job on the assembly line
at a factory the work was monotonous the
pay was low and there was little
opportunity for growth leaving her
feeling hopeless about her future in
July 2022 xha quit her job and returned
to her home in Hunan finding herself
unemployed for someone with her
education level finding a good job in
China was difficult but fortunately no
matter what decisions she made Mr fan
and his wife unconditionally supported
her even if she stayed at home for a
long time without work or income then in
a surprising twist jiha discovered her
passion and career on July 5th 2022 she
posted a short video on the video
platform doing Chinese Tik Tok where she
shared that it had finally rained and
she no longer had to water the crops to
her surprise the video went viral
receiving over 10,000 likes people were
Amazed by the contrast her video created
she continued to share her daily life in
rural Hunan and it quickly gained
massive success now she has 1.65 million
followers and earns tens of thousands of
dollars a month this is a very high
income especially in rural China the
first thing she did after earning money
was to help her adoptive parents retake
their wedding photos and plan to buy
them a house in the city more
importantly her story along with her
relationship with her adoptive parents
touched millions of people increasing
her Fame and commercial value many media
Outlets came to interview her and
numerous companies sought her for brand
endorsements and e-commerce
collaborations however jiha chose not to
go to a big city instead she decided to
stay in rural Hunan with her adoptive
parents she said she wanted to help
promote local agricultural products and
improve the lives of farmers in her home
Town Mr fan and his wife were content
with their life only hoping to live
peacefully in rural Hunan they never
expected jha to repay them for anything
as for jiha's choices they always
respected and supported them you might
be curious if xha plans to go back to
Pakistan to search for her biological
parents xha said that she has no
interest in this matter Honan is her
home and her adoptive parents are her
real parents she just wants to live a
good life life and honor them jha is not
married yet and we hope she finds a
partner who suits her soon also I've
personally confirmed with her that she
does not have an account on YouTube
therefore anyone claiming to be her on
YouTube or Tik Tok is an imposter at
least as of January
2025 this is the truth and I assure you
I'm telling the truth please don't be
deceived by
SC
[Music]
[Music]
for fore
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
foree
[Music]
[Music]
for
foree
speee
[Applause]
foree
[Music]
foree
[Music]
[Music]
for foree
[Music]
[Music]
sh