Brian Johnson doesn't want to die. And
with an estimated net worth of half a
billion, he's got enough money to try
out every drug and procedure that
scientists have come up with to remain
young. But that's only half of the story
because Johnson has really developed an
entire new philosophy of life that he
wants everyone to sign up to and it's
all about beating entropy increase. But
let's start at the beginning. Brian
Johnson has launched an entire movement
that he calls Don't Die with T-shirts,
has a supplement plan called Blueprint,
and a company that sells the stuff, had
Botox injected into his private parts,
his blood plasma replaced, claims he's
the healthiest person on the planet,
that his tomir say he's 10 years old,
and he measures his health, among other
things, by the duration of his nighttime
time erections. His recent record stands
at 3 hours and 49 minutes. His goal is
to see the last Bitcoin hing in 2140.
That's 115 years from now. It's easy to
make fun of Brian Johnson as a health
nut, but he has a grander vision. Don't
die isn't just about fighting
microlastics and food dyes. He believes
that it's the ultimate goal of any
species to survive and we aren't doing
all that well. We have largely accepted
environmental contamination. We have
accepted that the need to work cuts into
sleep and exercise. We have accepted
living conditions that are too loud, too
bright at night, too stress inducing,
and too far removed from nature. We have
accepted highly processed foods with
synthetic ingredients. We accept all
this as side effects of
industrialization on the rational that
it's still better than living in caves.
Probably true, but Johnson says we've
become too complacent about this. It's
about time we stop to knowingly wreck
our own health. Do something. Don't die.
but that we neglect our physical
well-being is only part of the story.
Johnson is convinced that artificial
intelligence is going to dramatically
change the world in the near future. And
I agree with him. Once we have machines
that are more intelligent than the
average human, that's going to change
everything very rapidly. And we're not
prepared for what's to come. Most of us
aren't prepared anyway because Johnson
says that well first of all we need to
survive the AI revolution so don't die.
But even if we survive that we'll have
to entirely rethink our goals. Western
society is currently largely driven by
capitalism that in one way or another
optimizes well-being through profit. One
can argue how well that works. But
there's no denying that we do currently
use this system and it's worked
reasonably well so far. But AI is going
to make wealth irrelevant, Johnson
thinks. And then the only rational goal
we'll have is don't die. What he's
proposing then is an entirely new
philosophy that one might call
survivalism. Don't measure your success
by how much money you make, by how well
you do at surviving. That is his health
obsession is just a way to quantify how
well he's doing at living up to his own
new goal. Here is how he thinks about
this himself.
Hi, my name is Brian Johnson. I am the
founder of Don't Die. Don't Die is an
attempt at answering the most important
question that we face on planet Earth.
That is what does a species do when
you're giving birth to super
intelligence? Now we have a lot of
answers today in the form of our current
societal systems, democracy and
capitalism,
uh, Christianity, Islam, socialism.
There's a bigger question that arises,
however, are those systems still going
to be adequate to address the needs of
us as a species? Will they still deliver
the ethical and moral imperatives? Will
they still be the stable philosophical
frameworks that we rely upon? Will they
be a goal that we can give to AI that we
can socialize with not only our our
computer friends but also ourselves? The
don't die is a full stack ideology that
is attempting to answer these most
important questions and it begins with
physical systems where you can measure
entropy uh in physics. You can also
measure entropy in biological systems.
is numerical and so these conversations
around AI don't don't die typically take
between uh 60 and 90 minutes for someone
to gro the ideas but I would just
introduce this to you as a concept that
this is a an attempt at trying to answer
uh what we do in the most practical
terms possible
aging is the accumulation of errors in
our bodies that you can loosely
interpret as entropy increase entropy
increase is the law of nature but that's
just overall in the entire universe. You
can locally decrease entropy if you have
energy available and we have the energy.
We just don't know how to use it to
repair aging related damages. Not yet.
But I think Brian's right that this will
become our goal as a species once
sufficiently many people understand that
it's achievable in the first place. And
I guess he sees himself as the prophet
who made them see the light. I'm not at
all sure that AI is going to make wealth
irrelevant. So that's where I get off
the bus. I expect that at least in the
near future, AI is going to dramatically
concentrate power in the hands of
wealthy people. I can also just about
guess what economists would say about
this. If people have survival as their
goal, then that creates monetary value
for products and services that help
people reach that goal. So, we're back
to capitalism to optimize people's
utility. Capitalism is a sort of fixed
point of societal self-optimization
that'll be hard to get rid of, but I'll
let economists pick that fight. Be that
as it may, I think Johnson is right that
if you look at the long-term prospects
of any species, you're back to natural
selection and the ultimate goal becomes
survival. I guess that also unites
Johnson, at least in spirit, with Elon
Musk, who's made it his mission to
single-handedly raise the fertility rate
back to replacement level. That was
Brian Johnson's grand vision to the
extent that I understand it. To me, it
sounds ambitious but not unreasonable.
It is, however, surprisingly divisive.
He's a scammer, a snake oil salesman, a
narcissist, a middle-aged man in a
severe midlife crisis with a vampiric
Voldemort vibe and on and on it goes.
Why the hate? I think it's partly
because Johnson asks people to adhere to
a lifestyle that besides money requires
a very restrictive diet. a lot of
exercise and religiously protecting your
sleep, which to most people doesn't
sound like a lot of fun. Doesn't help
that he's on Twitter each day to
reprimand others for not sleeping
enough, for not exercising enough, for
eating the wrong things, or drinking the
wrong things, or breathing the wrong
things. According to Brian Johnson, a
typical Johnson tweet reads like this.
Friends, I have the best biomarkers in
the world. I'm the healthiest person on
the planet. I'm fitter than most
teenagers. My skin is smoother than that
of women in their 20ies who obsess over
theirs. I have more stamina in bed than
men in their 20ies. I have better health
markers than any hater, health
influence, and anti-aging doctor and
scientist. My mind is sharper than it's
ever been, and so on. I would interpret
this as him trying to be inspiring and
leading by example, but I can see that
it might come across as narcissistic or
condescending. Though I suspect that
much of the hate he gets has little to
do with either his initiative or his
biomarkers, it's because the guy is rich
and mostly fails to acknowledge that
other people can't afford living as
healthy as he does. An example that
springs to my mind is Rohin, a
cardiologist in the UK, leaving aside
his YouTube hobby. Rowan works a lot of
night shifts, which yeah, probably isn't
all that healthy. But what's the
alternative? Do we just let people die
if they have a heart attack at night
because, you know, all these
cardiologists and nurses must watch out
for their biomarkers.
Or how about having a baby? That's not
good for your sleep pattern, trust me.
So if your ultimate goal is maxing your
biomarkers, is the logical conclusion to
not have children or do you hire a nanny
to take care of the baby full time? I
think that everyone needs to find a
sensible balance between conflicting
life goals given the constraints they
face and that Brian Johnson doesn't
acknowledge this is probably part of the
reason that people question his mission
if not his sanity. It doesn't help that
many of the treatments and drugs he's
tried are difficult for the average
person to get their hands on. He's
tried, for example, reprim and
metformin. Both are prescription drugs
that he takes off labor under doctor
supervision. He's also tried total
plasma replacement, some stem cell
things, hyperbaric oxygen therapy, and
various others. None of those are cheap
and none of those are easily accessible
unless you're [ __ ] rich. If you take
all this together, the message he's
sending willingly or unwillingly is that
rich people are going to live forever
and they'll let the rest of us die and
then maybe it isn't so surprising that
many people are a little dismayed. That
said, there's some relevant context to
Brian Johnson's preachings, which is
that his health obsession is a fairly
recent development that he only started
a few years back. He seems to have had
somewhat of a come to Jesus moment after
being overweight and living off junk
food for the first 45 years of his life.
The newly converted are often the worst,
but maybe in a few years he'll relax a
bit. Even leaving aside the haters, a
lot of people are understandably
skeptical that Brian Johnson's efforts
are going to do much. For one thing, one
can reasonably argue that it's good that
nature has a turnover process in which
old people die and young carry on. And
quite possibly he's just wasting the
limited time of his life ftting about
microlastics in his sperm. Indeed, how
much his biomarkers actually tell us
about biological aging is presently
rather unclear. Things like blood
glucose and fat and liver values are
rather standard indicators that are
known to be correlated with many health
risks. Other measures like telomere
length and inflammation markers can
reasonably be linked to the body's
ability to regenerate, which does sound
like a good thing. But whether that'll
actually help him live longer remains to
be seen. A recent study found, for
example, that this woman who reached the
age of 117 had very short telomeres
indeed, yet was otherwise remarkably
healthy. This is just a sample of one
and not super conclusive, but it
suggests that telomere length isn't a
meaningful indicator of health. At
present, it's impossible to tell how
much of his health actually comes from
all the things he's trying and how much
is due to him having good genes or, you
know, having lived a rather sheltered
life. If you think he looks good for 48
years, he's tried several facial
treatments to remove sun damage,
increase collagen production, and also a
fat transfer from a donor that he had an
allergic reaction to. Either way though,
I think looks don't say all that much
about a person's biological age. The
best example I can think of is Roger
Penrose, who just turned 94 and who
speaks more coherently than most people
half his age. So, I understand the
reasons for people's skepticism. But
again, I think it would be somewhat
missing the point. If you believe that
artificial intelligence will soon exceed
human intelligence, then we're likely to
see rapid advances in medicine in the
near future. It probably won't exactly
be a pill that'll make you young again,
but a plausible nearterm development is,
for example, the possibility to regrow
and replace organs that have worn down.
By Johnson's philosophy, you only have
to live long enough until the pace of
medical progress is faster than that of
human aging. And he's right that there
is no fundamental reason why humans must
age. It takes energy to prevent the
buildup of entropy, but we do have the
energy. This is why I think it's indeed
possible that in the next decade,
scientists will discover some longevity
treatments that actually work. Indeed,
if I was rich, I'd spend my money in
very similar ways. And then I'd call it
the pink print protocol just to annoy
everyone. The boring story here is that
the only scientifically proven methods
that will help you live longer are to
eat well, sleep well, exercise, and stay
away from drugs. The not so boring story
is that Johnson makes himself a guinea
pig for all of us, and he's trying to
inspire a great rethink.
You may not buy into his entire don't
die philosophy, but I think it's
plausibly true that life expectancy can
be optimized by paying attention to
nutrition and biomarkers. Will that help
you live to 200 years? Probably not. But
it could indeed help you live longer or
at least avoid some age related problems
and then maybe you'll live long enough
to merge with an AI. I'm not rich enough
to follow in Johnson's footsteps, but
I'm just about rich enough to have
signed up for cryopreservation
brain only. Cryopreservation is a
medical process that pauses all
biological activity by cooling a body to
very low temperatures. Special
cryoprotectants prevent ice crystal
damage. It's not freezing and patients
are preserved now in the hope that
future advances could revive and cure
the original condition. I did this with
a German company called Tomorrow Bio
who've sponsored this video. It's not
like you have to hand the money over to
them. The way that I've done it, which
is fairly common, is that I have a life
insurance that in the event of my death
will be paid out to tomorrow bio. While
research is constantly progressing, it's
currently not yet possible to revive a
human after they've been cryopreserved.
But there's no fundamental biological
reason why revival would not eventually
be possible. The potential payoff seems
to me so enormous that personally I
think it's at least worth a try.
Tomorrow Bio takes a very scientific
approach to cryopreservation.
They constantly update their routines
according to the newest research. They
have a standby team and they also have a
community. If you've been toying with
the idea of cryopreservation, I
recommend you check out their website or
schedule a call with someone from their
team and maybe we'll see each other in
1,000 years.