Halfway down, I got to stay a little
taller. And then impact, I got to get a
little bit more open. So tall and open.
[Music]
That was tall and open.
That's what the shirt taught me. That
was great.
Yeah, that's the best iron shot of my
life. Oh, and I got a 92 on the score
that which is my all-time high on this.
Hey, thanks for watching. I get sent a
lot of golf gadgets, golf tech, and
other things. This is something that I
was more excited about to get than
really almost anything I've ever gotten.
It's called the 4D Motion
Smart Shirt. It's a vest that you put on
and it has all those sensors inside of
it. This is a company that does like
some really high level biomechanics
research and stuff, but they made this
thing for like regular golfers to use
that can really make some big changes in
your golf swings. Yep, it's on. if you
really really want to get good at golf.
I was talking to the guy who is the
owner of this company, the inventor of
all this stuff. And he was telling me
about because I said, "How are tour
players using this?" Cuz I know Justin
Rose uses this and other people, but he
told me uh how really the elite players
are using this is to check how their
body positions are and how they're
moving and really just to remind them of
where to be. Your body can be different
every day. It's very easy to start
developing weird habits. And this, I
think, really helps with is get feeling
things that you would not have been able
to see with a camera and you would not
have been able just to feel on your own.
What we're going to be working on today
is this thing called loss of posture.
So, I'm going to redo the body
calibration. We're going to start
calibration now. And you can tell how
good a device really is by how easy it
connects and how easy it is to
calibrate. And that was it. That was the
entire calibration process. Just got to
stand still now.
Great. So, you see all these different
metrics that come up. Your setup, your
flat shoulder plane, loss of posture.
Everybody's going to have different
things that they trigger and different
things that they're pretty good at.
I trigger this loss of posture one
consistently. I am consistently bad with
that. So, and I think it's probably if
you could be look at one tile to see
like, okay, is this player a good player
or a bad player, that would be the one
you want to look at. I know that before
the RDER Cup, Justin Rose with his coach
Mark Blackburn, we're talking about
we're really working on Justin's dynamic
posture. So, what does that mean?
Dynamic posture means that this is your
posture here at setup, right? Dynamic is
once you start moving. So now let's say
this is the back swing. Even though this
line the player stayed on this line, a
lot of different things have happened.
Trading just forward bend only for now
it's a lot less forward bend because
you're effectively actually doing this a
little bit. But then you are left side
bending just to stay in this
orientation. Then you're going back to
forward bend and then you're right side
bending.
There's a lot going on
to just staying still. So it looks like
when I played golf with Patrick
Harrington, I was like, "Wow, it really
looks like he's staying still." That's
because he is dynamically balancing all
those forces so well that it looks like
he's not moving. And the consistency is
like totally unsurprising when you see
how little it looks like they're moving,
but they're actually moving a lot. And
that's the hard thing to do with this.
So, we're going to hit a shot here. I've
been working on this. Like, really been
working on this a lot.
Okay, decent shot. Felt a little to the
right and wasn't.
It's actually gonna draw back and be
like almost in the hole. Yeah, that's
super close. All right, that's a great
shot. Okay, so looking at these metrics,
everything's lining up pretty good. But
the main thing we're going to look at
here is that there the spine stability.
The owner of 40 Motion told me that what
that means is that it puts this 3D spine
right on top of your spine. Not only
this way, but also like let's say this
way too, right? And any time you come
off of that, you it basically gets
deducted a point. So that means uh for
lack of a better way to explain it, that
means that 17 times in my swing, because
I get an 83, 100 minus 83, I came off
that line. If you were perfectly staying
on that line the entire swing, you would
have 100. So an 83 is actually really
high for me. I'm usually like it's when
I started this, I was like 72.
I was working on this so long last night
to try to figure out some things to do
to get this better. And one of the
things I realiz is I have to stand
closer to it.
I have to stay on the down swing. I have
to stay away from the ball more. And
what was really interesting too is at
first when I was doing this, I thought
of it as a problem of like a down the
line problem, but it's not. It's a 3D
problem because I was actually staying
on the line pretty good this way. But in
from the face on view or even the top
down view, I was doing this too much. So
which is basically I'm see if I stay in
my forward bend, I go that way and I
stay behind the ball quite a bit. So I
actually want to go stay centered this
way more.
Okay, that went dead straight. And I got
a worse score. That was 78. Then we're
going to go into some training. So, a
little closer.
Okay, that should be a really good shot.
It was okay. And I got it back up to 80.
So, these aren't great scores for loss
of posture. So, we're going to work on
everything else. Looking pretty solid.
But just to show you how it's deducting
points. So there I got basically 20
points deducted is if we go from the
side there and zoom in. This is really
cool and it seems like incredibly
accurate too for only using three
sensors. They're really smart. So the
green line is like perfect. Like what
Justin Rose was working on before the
Ryder Cup, this is exactly it. So uh the
green line is like perfect. This is what
Justin Rose was working on with Mark
Blackburn at the RDER Cup. The green
line is perfect. So you can see there
now I'm coming a little bit above it
which that's okay. See I'm more above it
now
and then I'm on it and then I'm under
it. But from that view not too bad.
Right. And then I finish. What I'm
working on here is really this is where
I'm screwing up is when I go to the back
view. So I'm in forward bend there.
Right.
Yeah.
And when I'm in back view I stay in
forward bend too much like this.
Now I'm over this side where I should be
trading forward bend for side bend.
Okay.
So that's where it's deducting points is
that I'm I'm tipped to the right too
much and then I tip even more to the
right. So I would need a bit of a I
don't know stack and tilt field or
something to get this number here, this
spine stability number higher.
See if that helps.
Okay, great shot.
82. Okay, that's a little bit better.
Okay. So now we're going to try this
personalized training programs.
If you square scroll all the way to the
bottom, you can go custom bio feedback
address.
I don't want zero. I want I don't want
one. I don't want two. I want four.
Three and four.
P3 halfway.
All right. So this is the bio feedback
training that they recommended. And I
got to feel what's different about what
they want me to do. P3 halfway down
there.
P4 impact
there.
P3 halfway.
P4 impact.
P3.
Now I'm going to hit one. Feeling that.
P4 impact.
Now, for some reason, when I use this,
the machine really wants me like away
from the ball
here more rather than what I want to do
is there. I got to be here.
Key for impact.
Halfway.
See, I'll do two more reps and then
we're going to see if I can affect the
change here.
T4 impact
impact.
Okay, that feels more stable. We're
going to then now put this to the test
here
because I hit pulls and overdraws.
This loss of posture is like the main
thing that's causing that. It's me
wanting to stay behind the ball. So, I
fall back fall backwards. It's a It is a
tough habit to break, but this is
actually putting some sensors on that
habit. And hopefully I can make a good
difference. It's a lot taller the whole
swing.
Yeah, that was a great shot.
Yeah, that could go in the hole.
Okay, so we were able to raise it.
That's great. So, I got it up to 85.
Now, go here.
There. There. And open up. Use my hips
just a little bit more. And stand a
little closer. Use my hips a little
more. Stay taller.
Okay. Perfectly straight shot. Lost my
posture key. All the other numbers. Very
good. All right. Now, I'm going to do
this training again, but I'm going to
increase it even more. I I think I have
to I have to concentrate on a different
area here. So, I'm going to go to
personalized training programs. Go all
the way to the bottom. Custom BOF
feedback training
address.
So, I'm going to work on two, three, and
four. The top of swing, halfway down,
and then impact. P2, top of swing.
All right, there's one full rep.
P2, top of swing.
Let's put up some high numbers. Let's
get into the green. Let's get into the
90s. I'm going to do this by like if
there's a pie here, it seems like what
the system wants me to do is stay keep
from hitting that pie. Don't put your
face down into that pie, but put it keep
it higher. Really try to be
Man,
this is not easy.
Making a change is tough. All right, 88.
There we go.
That was better. 89. All right. So, what
am I doing? Why Why is this so much
better? I'm standing a little closer to
it. Not much really. Making a shorter
swing and I'm staying centered.
87. All right. So, all these numbers are
a lot better.
M. Okay. 88. Okay, we got to get a 90.
We're now in the high 80s. We've
improved this a little bit. Let's check
out the avatar and see how we're doing
avatar-wise. Behind it, staying behind
it.
Golly, that's tough. You can't really
just do the opposite of bad and then and
then think that you've made progress.
You actually have to legitimately make
progress to get this thing to be better.
All right, 87 again. Okay, so here it
is, the final result. So we went P2, P3,
P4.
So tall and open.
That was tall and open. That's what the
shirt taught me. That was great. And 85.
All right. So I'm consistently a little
better.
I really like this thing. It really puts
feel and real together in a way that you
can't do with just hitting balls or
filming yourself on camera.
I would not have ever thought that it's
super important in my swing to stay
taller here. I always thought I had to
crunch down to the ground so that I
could use some lag or something. But I'm
hitting the ball straighter and better.
The shirt taught me that I have to be
taller here.
And then I have to be more open here. So
you got to use my feet a whole lot more
to keep my posture up and my hips start
to open.
Okay, that's the best iron shot of my
life.
Oh, and I got a 92 on the score that
which is my alltime high on this. Okay,
if you guys are interested in getting
this, I think you should. It's really
great. There's a special discount for be
better golfers if you use the promo code
better golf. So this is be better golf,
but the promo code is just better golf.
I think it works really well if you go
to 4D their website. It's in the a link
in the description. I'll try to put a
link in one of these boxes as well
because it's a little confusing, but
I'll put the exact link that you want to
go to in the description to this video.
It's hard work. It's not easy. It's a
tool that really is very very smart in
how it ties feel and real together. But
you will come to insights about your
your swing that you may never even
working with a coach or filming it on
camera. These are things you may never
have thought of. But they're only things
that are worthwhile if you come up with
them. So I'm really going to use my feet
to keep me tall and to get me open. It's
like a feetbased swing.
Click the subscribe button. It really
helps the channel. And then go check out
4D Motion on their page. And you can get
a great discount if you use the promo
code better golf. Thanks for watching.
Bye.