A young Swedish woman goes undercover
into Greta Turnbig's flotilla. Records
everything, videos, audios, and just
expose every crazy thing that they've
been doing. And let's just say, guys,
it's wild. So, let's watch it.
[Music]
I think
she
[Music]
I realized there was no turning back
now. I would have to stay for 4 months
with these people from all over the
world, document everything, and report
back to my handlers.
>> So, we can't write that Shabb starting
throwing stones at the gates.
>> Palestinians also do bad stuff, but we
cannot write the bad stuff they do. I
know it's kind of like keeping some of
the truth away, but you have to look at
the bigger picture.
[Music]
>> The dream would be that scientism had
never happened. I wish there was a bomb
that would just kill them all.
>> All Israelis. All Israelis.
>> That's the flotilla staff. A bomb that
would kill all of the Israelis.
>> The occupation extends from the
Mediterranean Sea to to the river. Okay.
It's not just 1967. That came in 1948.
>> That is all of Israel, guys. That is the
only Jewish state in the world.
>> We don't say we're a resistance
organization. We say we're a human
rights organization.
>> That's how they fool you. Europe. That's
how they fool you. New York.
>> I say Paul.
>> Okay.
>> I think that's really important.
>> Paul Larudi from the free Palestine
movement joining us from Berkeley,
California.
>> Israel has to hurt.
Paul Larudi, a key figure in the
anti-Israeli organization, one of the
organizers of the Marmar Gaza flutilla,
a keen supporter of the Assad regime in
Syria and the Ayatullah regime in Iran.
Sounds like a great guy. You might want
to have him as a babysitter watching
over your kids.
>> Where do you find the people who donate?
>> Let me show you what we're doing here.
>> Okay.
>> He was bragging. I wanted to show that
he's a good fundraiser. He can raise a
lot of money.
>> This is our database. Nobody's ever seen
it before.
>> Oh,
>> it's not something that you show.
>> Okay.
[Music]
>> You need to collaborate with somebody,
right?
>> Oh, yeah. In fact, a lot of them are
American Brotherhood.
They haven't donated.
I I covered myself very well. Uh I think
the best person to connect you with
might be Zaher Bawi. He's very close to
Hamas. He knows all.
>> Yeah.
>> Zaher Biri ties with outlawed terror
organizations.
Head of Hamas in the UK. That's is a
literally designated terrorist
organization. International political
affiliations. By the way, also a very
rich, very bad guy.
[Applause]
will never enjoy peace. Victory in the
end will be ours.
[Music]
>> Okay.
>> Very good.
>> We had contacts in Gaza who were putting
together
like the event of the lifetime with tens
of thousands of people who are going to
try to breach the border front
100,000 which is an estimate
>> which is the minimum number
>> the minimum
>> yes expected to
>> she joins the flotillaa sailing from
Europe to Gaza only to discover there is
practically no aid support on board
[Music]
a few few boxes of gauze like something
completely negligible. This is an excuse
to say like oh we're carrying medical
supplies or whatever it is but it was
worth nothing.
[Music]
She exposes the truth behind the
activist of pro Palestinian human right
organizations.
[Music]
Amin Abu Rashid Hamas lead financial
operative in Holland. Extensive ties
cross Syria and Lebanon implicit in out
loud Elud's funds whose leader were
sentenced for imprisonment in the US.
Another great guy, a great neighbor to
have when you're living in Holland.
[Music]
You take money
every day every day.
[Music]
We have more than 700
>> and you're going to build more.
If you have money, you spend more.
[Music]
>> The true purpose of this organization is
revealed on camera.
>> My job is
>> Yeah.
[Music]
Are you filming us? Let's [ __ ]
>> I tell you what's the problem. Lack of
consequences. When society does not
punish evil deeds, it inevitably creates
a vacuum that is easily exploited by
people like this. Have no illusion.
Every single one of these so-called
activists on this flutilla is a
terrorist supporter. And if they will
not be persecuted by the law for being
terrorist supporters by Europe, then I
have no hope for Europe ever surviving
the invasion of radical jihad. This girl
went undercover and reported the staff
there saying
>> the dream would be that sanism had never
happened. I wish there was a bomb that
would just kill them all.
>> All Israelis. All Israelis.
>> That they want to annihilate all the
Jews. that they wish there was a bomb
that would come and kill all the Jews
and that they are rebranding these
resistant this terrorist supporter cells
in as a humanitarian activist group just
to raise money and get world support.
>> We don't say we're a resistance
organization. We say we're a human
rights organization.
>> Not only that, they're actually being
paid and sponsored by Hamas. I mean
Greta Turberg is basically a Hamas
activist. There is actual evidence
showing that they're receiving financial
support and payment from Hamas, a
terrorist organization. So when you
allow people in your country to just go
around and do stuff like that and never
get a punishment, never get
consequences, then no doubt you're going
to have a lot of very bad people just
jumping on that train because that's
that's a roller coaster for bad morally
bankrupt people and you're going to have
more and more of them because there's no
consequences. Now, let me tell you
something. have no illusion. None of
them is a good person. None of the
people that went on the flotillaa is an
innocent person. You can't play that
game today. There's so much information
out there in social media easily
obtained that tells you exactly who is
Hamas that tells you exactly what
happened in October 7th that tells you
exactly who is Assad, the Syrian regime,
and all these bad players in the Middle
East. So to come and say, "Oh, I don't
know. I didn't know where I was going. I
really thought I'm going here just to
feed innocent people." First of all, you
guys didn't even bring any food. Second
of all, it is undoubtedly a summer camp
for the most extremist, most radical
activists in Europe from the United
States that came and jumped in one goal
to go and undermine the existent of the
only Jewish state in the world. This is
pure anti-semitism, pure extension of
Nazism. Because I tell you what, if they
were true activists who cared about
human rights, who cared about children's
rights, why aren't they're marching to
Syria right now or they're massacring
Jews, Christians, Alawat Yazid is
kidnapping them in the thousands. Why
aren't they going and marching into
Congo, into Sudan, into Kenya, there is
hundreds of Christians in Africa being
butchered, slaughtered with machetes in
the most horrific way by Muslims on a
daily base. We're talking about more
than hundreds of thousands of innocent
Christians who died in the last year by
the hands of Muslim radicals in Africa.
No one is talking about this. Why aren't
they going and marching about that?
These people don't even have an army.
They're not even resistant. They're not
even using anyone as human shields.
Jihadists are just going village by
village plundering, killing, beheading
everything that is coming in their way,
taking their children as sex slaves. Not
a single word from Greta, from any of
these activists. And why is that?
because it doesn't serve their agenda to
go and destroy the only Jewish state in
the world. So when you have a beacon
like this called the flutilla that
brings all these terrorist supporter
activist into one group and they go
sailing and then Israel does the job and
arrest them all for you and deport them
right to you. Take names. Every one of
these people should be persecuted by the
law of Europe as a terrorist supporter,
not an innocent person. There's no one
innocent. I mean, they all saw I mean,
they all know what happened October 7th.
They all know what Hamas did to innocent
people in Israel. They all saw what the
Gazans did to the body of Sha Luke and
other bodies who were dragged and
paraded in the streets of Gaza, spitting
on them, going and sharing baklawas in
the street. Not a single condemnation
for the wickedness of Hamas in their
eyes. Everything they do is targeted
against Israel. Have no illusion. Don't
hear any of their lies where they're
going to tell you, "No, it's against
Zionism. It's against colonism. It's
against occupation and all kind of words
they like to throw in the air. They're
doing that just because they know it
works on you. These are extremist
terrorist supporter activist Nazilike
borderline Nazis whose hatred toward the
Jews and the only Jewish nation in the
world is so great that they will
handpick any catastrophe that is
happening around the world, any tragedy
and will politicize it and use it
against the Jewish people and will put
it in your face to convince you that the
Jews are bad and that the radical
Muslims are good. That's exactly what
they're doing. Because if they didn't do
that, they will be going right now and
marching towards every single innocent
Christian that is being massacred in
Muslim countries in the hundreds of
thousands. Way more than the death toll
in Gaza, way more than that. or go and
march for what is happening in Syria
with the Syrian regimes going around and
just massacring Jews, Christians,
Yazidis, Alawites, kidnapping their
children as sex slaves, burning
Christian villages as we're speaking
right now. Not a single word from these
so-called activists. I mean, you heard
them. They're even saying it themselves.
We don't call oursel as a resistant.
>> We don't say we're a resistance
organization. We say we're a human
rights organization. We brand ourselves
as human activists. Not because they
care about humanitarian needs, just if
they did, I mean, they will probably
bring real food. They didn't even bring
food and medicine with them on these
boats. It was a stunt PR trick sponsored
by a terrorist organization. Every one
of them is actually working for a
terrorist organization. They literally
got paid by Hamas. So if a terrorist
organization comes and organize a very
racist terrorist supporting rally in
your country and start paying people
from your countries in the west to work
for them and your country does not come
and bring the full wrath of justice on
them, then oh boy, you guys are opening
one can of worms. And trust me when I
tell you, you're going to start seeing
inif revolutions in your streets and
it's not going to be pretty. Stay safe.
See an example. Oh, and by the way, if
you've seen these videos of Greta
claiming that she was kidnapped by the
Israelis and held hostage, well, Greta,
you know what? This is how a hostage
look like. Not like you. This is how a
hostage look like. This is how a hostage
look like. So, spare us the crocodile
tears. You're a con artist. You're a
disgrace. And I really hope that finally
someone is gonna sue her and the
government will take proper action
against these clowns.