The studio behind Solo Leveling, just
lost $1 million. A1 Pictures, the studio
that literally cooked with Solo
Leveling, is now in debt. Somehow,
despite animating one of the biggest
animes of the year, A1 Pictures just
posted their biggest financial loss in
10 years, and it's around $178 million
yen, which is over $1.1 million. To put
that into perspective, last year they
were in the green with a 24 million yen
profit, and this year is their worst
performance in a decade as a company.
The only other loss recorded before this
was a tiny loss back in 2020, but
otherwise they've been killing it, and
we've seen why. They are a solid studio.
It's crazy because solo leveling was
trending worldwide, but clearly
something isn't right if you suffer
losses from so much success as a studio.
Let's just hope this doesn't affect
season