I saw this earlier today and I was like,
is this is this a new clip? Because no,
he couldn't possibly have crashed out to
today. Sure. Sure enough. Yep. This is a
new clip. Hassan has crashed out. And
when you see this video, you're you're
going to experience someone going
through a severe psychological breakdown
live on stream. And initially when I
first heard him, and we'll get into it,
but when I first heard him going down
the road, I was like, "Oh, he's just
embellishing this. He's trying to
misdirect and redirect away from the dog
situation." But as he kept going, I'm
like, "No, no, he he's lost his mind.
The situation has really gotten to him.
The walls have collapsed." Yeet says,
"Hassan crashes out and black pills on
everything. I hate the left. I hate
liberalism. my life. I hate streaming.
Socialism, you did it. I am blackpilled.
Nothing will ever get better. Now,
obviously, he's being disingenuous with
that, but it's it's kind of like a it's
a crash out to be like, I his brain
doesn't know how to handle the situation
that he's dealing with right now.
>> Everybody just simply wants to I can't
stand any of you dumb [ __ ] in this
goddamn chat. Oh my [ __ ] god. I hate
I hate the left. So, um, calling out
your chat is a a curious move. We'll see
how that one works out for him. I hate
liberalism. I hate everything that's
going on every single [ __ ] day of the
goddamn week. I just I hate my life. I
hate [ __ ] streaming. I hate
socialism. I hate every single [ __ ]
person who thinks that the the peak of
activism is just being the most
annoying, holier, thou, holier than
thou, the most ultimately woke leftist.
It's just it's I You did it. You did it.
You have unlocked the [ __ ] nihilism
within me. Okay. I am blackpilled.
Nothing will ever get better. We are
never going to make it out. We can't
even have a normal [ __ ] non-hostile
goddamn conversation on any of these
issues. Everybody just simply wants to
[ __ ] chirp into the wind because they
have no power and they recognize their
utter
>> and why I think this is an extreme crash
out is he's not making any [ __ ] sense
at all.
Like like at all at all cuz the things
he's saying if he is saying he's
stepping away from the side he's been on
to to jump on to the other side. He
starts to contradict himself immediately
while calling his own shadow. Like, none
of it makes any sense at all.
>> Powerlessness in the face of
unjustifiable constructs that we [ __ ]
exist under. And the best possible
[ __ ] thing you can do is just be
goddamn annoying. Okay.
Oh.
Oh, God.
By the way, you notice Ka's back in the
uh place.
You notice that the prop is back?
He's picking at his teeth right now
pretty hard. Like that's like a nervous
tick that people have, too.
>> Right when the reporter was asking about
optimism.
I want to [ __ ] I want to just shut it
off, dude. I want to shut everything
off. I I just want to go away. If I
wasn't so goddamn stubborn, I would have
a long time ago. This is, by the way,
the other thing that I always wonder
about this. This guy is a communist,
self- admitted. He's a champagne
socialist. He's someone with a lot of
money. What's he drive? A Lambo, uh,
some something very expensive. Lives in
a multi-million dollar home in a very
expensive area in LA. He's got all the
money in the world.
And he he chooses to hate his life and
stream. It would be one thing if he
loved doing it, like if he had a passion
for it like Asmin Gold and he just loved
streaming and it didn't matter about the
money. I'd be like, "Okay, I get it."
You can tell listening to him, he is not
happy at all. He sounds [ __ ]
miserable. He almost sounds like someone
who all of his life choices have all
come to this point in time right now.
All the pressure of everything that's
led to this moment, and he can't handle
it, and he's cracking under the
pressure.
Oh my lord, dude. I 100% think you
should something go on sub only mode.
What do you mean the most annoying
people are literally like the 40 month
subscribers?
>> So now not only is he calling out his
subs, but he's saying the most annoying
ones are the the ones that have been
around the longest,
the ones that have paid him money, the
ones that have donated to support him.
Like bro,
what are you doing? Like maybe he's
going with the full-on Stockholm
syndrome approach because this works
with the chicks in his life. Maybe he
thinks he can start treating his chat
like this. And maybe to a certain extent
it will work with some of his chat that
they're just straight up [ __ ] people
that are are are beaten housewives or
beaten dogs that will just keep coming
back to him crying. Sure, there'll be a
certain percent of people that do that,
but by and large, this kind of crash
makes people wake up to be like, "What
the [ __ ] am I doing listening to this
guy? What a dick. How much money have I
spent supporting this guy just for him
to say I'm the most annoying one? [ __ ]
that. Like coming from me, a guy who
supports a lot of channels and a lot of
people that I really look up to, a lot
of people that I I I want to emulate and
and be like, and and if and if I was one
of these people watching this on and and
he had a crash out like this and I was
supporting, I'd be like, the [ __ ] Who
who does this guy think he is?
You can't you can't talk to me like
that. Darkis says I mean he's right
though. He is right. But that's because
of the audience that he has curated
himself. So he needs to accept the blame
himself for that and acknowledge it and
own it. But instead, as always, he
offloads it on to you. He says,
"Everyone else is the problem, not me."
That's that's what he always falls back
to. The person that caused me to [ __ ]
spiral just now is Hidejo offliner or
whatever. And that is like a routine
nuisance and an offliner in this
community. Okay. He is a consistent
voice of nuisance. Okay.
What? He's had it like the straw that
broke the camel's back. One comment from
one person. His chat flies.
When he's talking, his chat is flying so
fast. Why would he give a [ __ ] about
what one person that's annoying him
would say when his chat's going so fast?
Like, bro, let it go, man. Let it go.
>> Are you talking about the people that
actually brick me? The people that
actually cause me to [ __ ] spiral out
of control are always the people that
have been in this [ __ ] community for
years.
>> Probably the most base people, the ones
that are most grounded, down to earth.
Those are the ones that make them
spiral.
>> Who never shut the [ __ ] up.
I have banned him before.
>> Which, by the way, here's the other
thing. This crash out, it it kind of
pulls the curtain back a little bit more
on who Hassan really is. And we get a
better look at who this guy is. And it
makes a much clearer picture of, yeah, I
could definitely see this guy abusing
his dog. If this is how he's going to
treat people publicly, just imagine how
he treats his dog privately.
It's literally just like I'm not even
singling him out. He's just one example,
but this happens all the [ __ ] time,
bro. Anyway,
>> is he gonna start crying? You gonna cry,
Hassan? You gonna cry? Gonna cry, bro.
One of the worst. And look at this open
presence. Gifted tier one sub. Tier one
sub. Someone just gifted a shitload of
subs to him during a crash.
All this does is reinforce to him that
the way he's treating people in the chat
is right and he's going to keep doing
this.
Congratulations to the audience that you
have curtailed.
>> Aspects of of like this kind of
gathering online is that people
I think people don't behave like this in
the real world. That's unironically what
I was talking about. That's why I have
so much hope for the future of America
when I'm out in the [ __ ] streets,
right? because I see grandparents and I
see kids and I see regular ass folk.
>> Okay, so the grandparents I've seen too
uh with the flags upside down, the no
kings protest, the Trump sucks. I've
seen those. They they are insane. They
are legitimately crazy. I've seen kids
with them, too. And my god, my heart
breaks because those kids are being
straight on indoctrinated by insane
people.
And Hassan's looking at that same thing
and saying, "Oh, it gives me hope for
the future." Yikes, bro. Yikes.
>> That see right from wrong. And they say,
"Fuck this. What do you mean? You're
just like kidnapping my neighbors. Get
the [ __ ] out of here.
>> It's not kidnapping neighbors, dude.
They're illegal immigrants. They jumped
into this country without following the
proper path, without doing the proper
paperwork, without filing the proper
taxes, without doing everything the way
they should, the way that other
immigrants do to do it the right way.
And you want to say, "Hey, they made it
across without getting caught. We should
reward them with allowing them just to
be our neighbors, and you're not allowed
to take them away."
Miss me with that. But I will never, for
the life of me, I've had conversations
with good friends of mine, by the way,
in real life, about how I'm like, I
don't give a [ __ ] I know plenty of
people in San Diego, by the way, that
may or may not be illegals, I'll just
say. And they said, if XYZ person just
gets taken by ICE, are you going to be
mad at ICE? Are you going to realize
that? I'm like, no. If they were
illegal, they they shouldn't be in the
country. Sorry. Like, sucks. sucks to be
them, but they probably should have gone
through the proper path. The the the big
error in in the judgment here with
Hassan is getting mad at Trump. Same
thing with all these other people,
getting mad at Trump, getting mad at
ICE, without rolling back the clock to
the Biden era, which allowed all of this
to happen in the first place. If that
wasn't so open border policy forever
without any questions asked for the
longest time just to bring in Democratic
votes, I don't think we'd have an issue
like we do right now. So we have Trump
trying to clean up the mess of the
previous administration and all you're
doing is getting mad at them for that.
That's crazy to me. Crazy.
And they protest and that gives me
confidence. And then when I go back to
the internet and I get [ __ ] yelled at
by a bunch of screenager iPad babies who
are 38 years old.
>> Meanwhile, we're getting screened at by
uh Nepo baby in his mansion that is 35,
40 years old, however the [ __ ] this guy
old is.
I mean, talk about projection. Is he
serious right now? who think that the
most like radical socialist position is
to constantly chirp in a [ __ ] Twitch
streamer's chat and and hyper scrutinize
everything and then like refuse to
understand like broader points.
>> So, this is him acting like he's better
than you because you're chatting and
you're not speaking into a microphone
with people listening to you. In
Hassan's mind, you mean less than he
does because he has a microphone. That
again, he's calling out his own chat
again, telling them straight up that
you're not important. He is. listen to
him, not you.
That That's insane to me.
>> Okay. Refuse to be open-minded. Then I'm
blackpilled again. It's virtually
impossible not to be black if you're
online all the [ __ ] time. Everything
that we do here is so bad.
>> So what he's saying is if you're online
all the time, it makes you based and
that's bad.
Did I just Did I just hear that right?
Am I am I missing something? This This
was a crash out to end all crashs. Uh
and I I love this part. This was uh K.
Jo says, "My new favorite hobby is
reading Hassan's chat. Try it." Uh
condone Hassan. Valid crash out. Pog we
all dead. We did it, guys. I've been
saying this. No. General down. Jesus,
bro. I think he broke. Damn, chat. You
got him crashing out 20 minutes in.
[ __ ]
Let it out, bro. You're right.
Why I left the left? Dash Hassan.
Take a [ __ ] shower,
guys. I I think his chat is starting to
get to him.
Holy [ __ ] That's amazing. Uh, this just
confirms the majority of Assad's chat is
just hate watching. That's a good point.
Maybe that's what he's done. He's
grifted for so long off of people just
hate watching him. He's unlocked a new
grift. And from that perspective, I
guess it worked for him. Hassan is
cracking. We're winning, says Grubs.
Keep pushing. Again, this crash out was
so bad that I I didn't think it was from
today cuz I'm like, you think he'd be
like offline not addressing any of this
stuff? Not right now. Give it some
space. Go get on a [ __ ] private jet,
fly to the Cayman Islands, and and go do
whatever diddy parties you want to go
to. Again, Hassan, I don't know why he's
online right now. This is crazy. This is
absolutely crazy because he's destroying
himself in real time. And I gotta be
honest, I'm [ __ ] here for it. We got
Teone who says, "If he thinks he hates
his life, just imagine Kaa."
I hate to laugh, but but god damn
Savvy. The people who caused me to
spiral are the ones who have been in
this community for years. Dash Hassan.
Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow.
Jeremy, this makes me happy.
Packer girl, stupid dog. You made me
look bad on stream. Alex Baldwin's
finger uh recently engaged ABF says,
"What's crazy is it took a controversy
with his dog to get here and not people
realizing his ideas are bad." Which I
gotta say, I was right about this. I
said back when this first happened, you
can check the tape, I was like nothing
else took Assad down. Colorgate is going
to take him down because this is real
life. This is a dog. People don't [ __ ]
with that. People People draw a hard
line. You guys who have been coming to
these streams, you know that's always
been what I've said from day one with
this. This is the line that gets drawn.
And I almost feel like that crash out
from Hassan is him acknowledging,
oh [ __ ] this really is the line that I
crossed, there's no going back now cuz
he doesn't know how to actually be
accountable and apologize.
Bass player says, "We've come a long
way, guys. Woke bay Hassan [ __ ] wants
your [ __ ] attention
wearing a Antifa shirt." The brash
commenter from the Young Turks Network
knows people think he's problematic, but
is that a problem? By Hannah Smothers.
Yes, Hannah. It's a problem.
Philip Jen crash out of the year. John
Douglas suffer Hassan.
Infernal Blazing Phoenix. Oh, it's
glorious.
He's literally having dog torture
withdrawals.
Bro is a multi-millionaire. Amazing job,
tons of fans, nice house, nice car,
beautiful girlfriend, and he hates his
life because his chatters are a little
bit disturbed by the way he treats his
dog. Could you imagine being so fragile?
Holy [ __ ] James Earl Cash, that might
be the best one of all of them. Well,
well, well, if it isn't the consequences
of my own actions.
By the way, and I'll leave it at this.
Uh Hassan, anytime he posts, and he's
been posting a lot,
every time he keeps talking about
politics, trying to misdirect, redirect,
change the topic, people keep going back
to the dog. The internet will never let
go of this ever. It they're not going to
let the fans of Assan back him down.
People just got to 20 years from now,
they're going to if he's still online
doing this, they're going to keep
putting the memes every time he posts.
That's just because he did not handle
the situation properly. The PR was a
disaster from day one. He legit, he has
the money for it. He has too much
[ __ ] pride. He needs to hire an
actual professional PR company to handle
this for him. This is a massive
situation and he is mishandling it,
fumbling it every step along the way.
But yeah, for this I will leave that
right