Heat up
here.
Heat
up
here.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat
up here.
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Mhm.
>> Yes. The least free army stands.
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Hello everyone. I am the enforcer and
I'm accompanied by enforcer Matt and
good evening folks. It's enforcer Matt
and welcome back to day 13:30 of the war
news stream. And today we have very big
news that US officials have ordered a
covert CI intervention in Venezuela.
It's supposed to be secret, but now
everybody knows about it. Also, the US
has declared a trade war against China,
and Ukraine has warned of major Russian
escalation in Bellarus, and we have very
big news tonight. And it's good to see
you all once again. And of course, we're
going to be covering the past 24 hours
of news from around the world as we have
been able to hear of significant
developments from quite literally every
single region around the globe. Again
today, as we have been able to hear, the
United States of America through the
office of the president has publicly
stated that the super secret US special
operations campaign that which is now
being launched as a part of the CIA and
multiple other governmental agencies is
now being conducted inside of Venezuela
with multiple US agencies conducting top
secret infiltrations into the country
that we now know about here in the
public. We have also been able to hear
at the exact same time that three USB52
Stratfortress bombers have been spotted
off the coast of Venezuela today. This
led to a significant stir inside of
Venezuela and also the scrambling of
several F-16 fighter jets to attempt to
conduct an interception of the B-52
Stratofortress bombers that were flying
off the coast of Venezuela not too far
away. We have also heard an additional
statement that apparently at least one
strike on a Colombian drunk cartel boat
has been conducted in the midst of the
campaign and either was mistaken for a
Venezuelan narco vessel or was decided
to be attacked nonetheless. We have also
heard that the United States is looking
at conducting strikes on land inside of
Venezuela here soon. Once again making
it incredibly clear that the United
States is moving towards attempting to
provoke the Venezuelans as much as they
possibly can. In the meantime, we have
also been able to hear of other major
developments inside of Europe as the
Ukrainian armed forces on the Picass
battlefield have managed to push the
Russian Federation back on the northern
flank once again over the course of the
day. This is coming at the same time as
further unification efforts have been
conducted by the Russian Federation in
Barus. And we have also seen the
Ukrainians have started to raise the
alarm that significant actions are
occurring that are considered
escalatory. In the meantime, the United
States of America has approved the sale
of Tomahawk cruise missiles to the state
of Ukraine and are stating that they're
planning on those sales being conducted
here within the very near future. While
simultaneously, the United States is
also declaring an official trade war
with the People's Republic of China. As
of today, the People's Republic of China
is continuing its escalatory actions
against the Republic of the Philippines
by setting up some form of buoys around
the area of the Scarbor Shaw, while
North Korea is getting assistance from
the Russian Federation in building
submarines. And South Korea has noted
that multiple new defenses have been set
up by the Democratic People's Republic
of Korea along the demilitarized zone.
Not only that, inside of the Taliban a
uh Pakistan war, we have been able to
hear that a ceasefire, a 48 long one, 48
hour long one at that has finally been
achieved by the two sides. However, it
does appear that the Pakistanis have
been able to deal some significant blows
to the Taliban during that very period.
And we've also heard that the Republic
of India as a side note has given an
assurance to the United States of
America that they will not be conducting
any further trade with the uh Russian
Federation on the purchases of oils. The
state of Israel has now insisted today
that there are as a matter of fact more
bodies that Hamas is in possession of
than claimed and that this may lead to
some sort of a degradation of the peace
deal and a continuation of the war. As
we are also hearing that new war plans
are already being prepared by the
Israelis. What a coincidence. We have
also heard outside of that that the
Russian Federation has taken another
major hit today inside of Ufa at a oil
refinery and a Russian aircraft happened
to drop a 1,000lb bomb into the middle
of Saratov that luckily did not go off
as it had not been armed yet, but it
just happened to fall right off the
bottom of the aircraft. We have also
heard that the Navaras, the ill- fated
submarine with the diesel leak, has
somehow finally made it into the Baltics
today. And we've also heard of an
appearance of another Russian nucilass
submarine in the area of the Baltic Sea
as well, which is being observed heavily
by the Swedish Navy. We have a huge
amount of news to cover today. And these
are just the largest stories of the day.
This is not every single story from the
largest to the smallest that we have.
And of course, we're going to make sure
to cover every single major story that
we just talked about and all of the
smaller ones that we have in between.
But suffice it to say, like largely
every other day of the week these days,
there was absolutely no shortage of
major news coming out from around the
entirety of the world. And we are going
to be making sure to get into every
single piece of it, starting with our
largest stories first and then moving
our way on through the news into the
smaller stories through the night. So
with that in mind, we are going to be
starting off inside of the Americas
today as we have been able to hear of
significant developments and direct US
involvement on the ground inside of
Venezuela per the office of the
president of the United States. This is
something for this reason that we can
confirm with 100% certainty. Many of you
all know that here on the enforcer
channel, we have been analyzing the
possibility of US ground operations
being conducted inside of Venezuela by
special forces and other governmental
agencies of the United States, including
the CIA. The last time we analyzed this
on air, we actually stated that US
forces based out of Trinidad and Tobago,
most likely using the 160th SORE,
Special Operations Aviation Regiment of
the US Army, would be able to conduct uh
deep penetration raids into the nation
of Venezuela, dropping off special
forces operatives and possibly other
operatives, including those of the CIA,
to be able to conduct actions inside of
Venezuela to either attempt to
destabilize the government or to set up
some sort of a attempted uprising or
coup d'eta against the current existing
government. It actually appears that
that is highly likely the case at this
point as the president of the United
States today in a press conference
actually stated that they are officially
conducting covert CIA actions at a
minimum inside of Venezuela per the New
York Times. An additional statement was
also made when asked by the press uh
whether or not the CIA had the
authorization to kill Maduro. The
president then stated, "I don't want to
answer a question like that." largely uh
cutting the question off and then moving
on to further ones. Nevertheless, this
is a full-scale confirmation at this
point that the United States of America
has been at least for some time involved
directly on the ground inside of the
nation of Venezuela. And there are a
wide myriad of operations that the CIA
and special operations forces could be
conducting inside of the country at this
point that is supposed to be super
secret, but now everyone in the public
knows about it because of the statements
by the president of the United States
today. Still, the statement doesn't
really give away a great deal, at least
in terms of operational security, about
where exactly these special forces teams
are and what they are doing inside of
the nation of Venezuela, or for that
matter, the CIA operatives, which were
officially stated as of today. But one
thing is quite clear, the United States
is not looking to deescalate the
situation, but is looking to further
escalate the situation with the
Venezuelans. As the president of the
United States also stated that he is
currently looking at strikes against
Venezuelan cartels on land. To lay out
the land, the lay of the land, at least
on the strategic and diplomatic level,
let me explain to you all what we are
seeing right now. So with this in mind,
here's what we know. One, we claim that
Maduro and his government are an
extension of the cartel. There is
currently a $50 million bounty out on
Maduro uh issued by the United States of
America for his capture alive due to his
involvement in Norot terrorist
operations. So largely we do view the
Venezuelan government as an official
extension of the cartels within this
region. This largely means that when we
speak, at least on a US official level
at this point about curbing cartel
operations inside of Venezuela, the
government is not out of reach as we do
consider it an extension of the cartel
and largely a subd department or an
agency of the existing cartels within
the country. Secondly, with the
existence of the CIA operatives inside
of Venezuela being confirmed and also
the general confirmation along with that
that multiple special forces, including
those agents of the CIA, are currently
involved on the ground in Venezuela. We
are very clearly understanding at this
point that there are preparatory
operations being made. either they're
collecting intelligence, a uh
preparation or a uh preparatory
operation to ensure the US strikes will
be as successful as possible when they
are conducted, or they are currently
trying to conduct assassinations against
highle officials inside of the
Venezuelan government. And while we have
not been able to see any of those being
conducted yet, they still could be
either actively attempting to
assassinate those officials or gathering
enough intelligence and information to
allow for the United States armed forces
or for some sort of a special operations
team to conduct the assassination hit
directly against those Venezuelan
government officials. We also understand
that listing posts uh uh general
photography and pictures and also
multiple other operations could be made
along with stirring up public disscent
against the government and possibly
trying to buy off support uh in the
opposition against the Maduro government
by buying them outright with hard cash.
a similar tactic that was seen inside of
Afghanistan in the US invasion of
Afghanistan in 2001 where CIA operatives
conducted the very same operations to
buy off support against the existent
Taliban government in Afghanistan and a
similar sort of attack that could be
conducted by the CIA against the Maduro
regime inside of Venezuela. Uh we have
also been able to hear additionally that
there is a large amount of US forces
within the area including the USS Euima
amphibious ready group multiple Arley BK
class destroyers along with a Tyon
Derogga class missile cruiser the US's
Lake Erie a latoral combat ship a US uh
a freedom class latoral combat ship
along with several uh F-35Bs of the
United States Marine Corps it's an
entire uh air wing of them 10 F-35s and
the entire 22nd Marine Expeditionary
Unit the 22nd MU which is currently
based out of Puerto Rico. We also
understand the 160th Special Operation
Aviation Regiment of the US Army is
currently based somewhere out of
Trinidad and Tobago and the United
States is still exploring the
opportunity of basing US forces to some
extent inside of the island of Grenada,
which is also incredibly close to
Venezuela. We have also heard today that
the United States of America has
conducted significant flights of B-52
strata fortresses near to the area of
the coastline of Venezuela and their
airspace as several B-52H's were seen
around the area and were conducting
orbits including Bunny 1, Bunny 2, and
Bunny number three. Uh it does appear
>> there's some those deadly bunnies right
there. I tell you what, what an
interesting name for those aircraft. But
also it took a little fly by by Cuba,
too. Notice that it sort of went right
by the side of Cuba on the way to
Venezuela. It really did. Actually, that
was an interesting note that they did
take a little a little bit of a hop skip
and a jump uh right through this area,
this street between the Yucatan
Peninsula and the most western area of
Cuba. Uh which was a little bit
interesting note. And they pretty much
skirted all the way along Cuba on their
way down. uh possibly trying to either
avoid Cuban airspace and this was the
easiest path to take or trying to send
some sort of a message to the Cubans
about what could be coming their way
considering they really have no way to
even defend against the B-52 if it was
carpet bombing them which most people
would actually have a defense to these
days. Still, the United States of
America has conducted a large air
presence in the area today as a result
of the flights of B-52H Strata
fortresses. And also really quickly
folks, I do want to say this. That was
probably the quickest and easiest flight
path to take considering that those B-52
bombers did take off from Barksdale Air
Force Base here in Shreveport,
Louisiana, which is where most of the uh
current operational B-52H
Stratafortresses are currently based out
of. So, it's highly likely that that
path was taken and it ended up skirting
along a large part of the coastline of
Cuba because that would have been the
most opportune route to take and the
shortest one instead of conducting a
longer flight around Cuba and also Haiti
and the Dominican Republic to the north
and then having to skirt directly across
Puerto Rico and then down into the
Eastern Caribbean. So, it may have been,
and of course there's two options here,
there's never a clear answer to
anything. It may have been to save on
the amount of flight hours that these
aircraft would be involved in, or it may
have also been an additional show force
against the Cubans one way or the other.
We have also heard that as a response to
this, the Venezuelans did panic and did
mobilize F-16s uh which were airborne to
respond to the B-52 flights that were
outside of the country. According to
information that we had gotten earlier
in the day, Venezuelan F-16s were
reportedly airborne from the El
Liberador air base inside of Ara. We
were then later able to see one of these
F-16s taking off from the air base in
Ara in this clip right here. Kind
of interesting they're using F-16s to go
after our aircraft considering that the
F-16 is an Americanmade fighter jet.
That's sort of a strange thing that
Venezuela is anti-US but yet they use
our fighter.
>> Yeah, I would have to say it is a fairly
interesting deal. Funnily enough, they
actually have a decent amount of F-16s
in the Venezuelan Air Force because
before they went the whole Maduro route,
they were actually largely somewhat
American aligned. Uh, and then after
they went the Maduro path, that's when
we started to see that the Venezuelans
started to get access to a larger amount
of Chinese and Russian equipment like
they have today. But if we take a look
at the Venezuelan Air Force, uh, just to
show you all this right here really
quickly, we can actually see if we go
down to the list of operational
aircraft, they actually have only three
F-16s. Only three of them. Wow. I
>> I bet they're having a hard time getting
replacement parts for them, too,
considering the US is on good terms with
them.
>> I would have to assume probably so. I
mean, it is it is interesting, folks,
because I remember that they actually
had a larger number of F-16s than this,
at least in the past. I guess they
retired a lot of them because the last
time I looked at these figures, it was a
couple of years ago. Um, but they also
have 21 SU30s, which is their most
numerous uh multi-roll aircraft that
they have in their air force, although
it's more so of an air superiority
fighter than a true multi-roll like we
would have inside the United States.
Still, it does appear that at least at
the moment, the Venezuelans did respond
with the limited number of F-16s that
they had, uh, flying them out towards
the area of the B-52 bombers and
generally conducting, uh, either some
sort of an interdiction flight or a
combat air patrol as a result of the
arrival of the B-52s off of their
coastline. A lot of people are looking
at the situation at this moment in the
entire lens that we have at this point,
and they're starting to wonder what is
the actual US goal. And I also have to
put out there a couple of additional
facts that we already know of so that we
all can um get all the information in
one spot tonight and then make a
decision off of this. The US government
has suspended all diplomatic talks with
the Venezuelans even with the proposed
offer that is rumored that the
Venezuelans are pretty much going to cut
all ties with the Chinese and the
Russians and pretty much become an
American satellite economically. We have
also seen that the Venezuelan government
has continued to state uh that they will
defend themselves to the last man and
they've been conducting significant
mobilization and defensive operations in
their country for the past few months as
a result of these actions. The United
States has been attacking and bombing
narco terrorist boats that are
Venezuelan off the coast of Venezuela
and are now stating as a lack or a
result of the lack of response by the
Venezuelans that they're now going to be
moving on to direct air strikes and
attacks on land inside of Venezuela.
With all these facts considered at the
base level along with everything else
that we've told you all about so far
today, a lot of people are talking about
what the United States is planning on
doing inside of Venezuela. And Matthew,
what are people thinking about that? And
what are you thinking about that as
well?
>> All right, so y'all might recall we
actually predicted this about a week ago
or actually a little over a week ago
actually. We had said and speculated
that the CIA probably already has
operatives well inside of Venezuela and
they're probably all over the place
either softening up the Venezuelans for
invasion or doing some type of
operations like that for reconnaissance.
So it turns out we were actually right
because they've apparently been there
and they have been authorized officially
by US officials. So, it's supposed to be
a super secret operation uh that we've
been told about. So, that's a little bit
interesting, but what is the objective?
And 62% said to ou the Maduro regime by
force, covertly, that is. And 19% said
to scare Maduro into compliance. And 13%
said it's to soften Venezuela for
invasion. So, I got to admit, not not a
really good strategy here. Uh we're
we're basically blowing the lid on the
covert CIA operation, at least the US
officials are, by saying that our goons
are currently running around in
Venezuela. Uh that's a little bit of an
interesting strategy. I've never really
seen that one employed before to tell
people that a covert operation is
underway on their soil. Seems a little
bit interesting, also quite a bad
decision, but nonetheless though, it's
known about. It's an open secret now. So
I would say ousting the Maduro regime by
force, that is probably their main
objective right now. And I would not be
shocked if they're trying to cash in on
that $50 million bounty that's currently
on Maduro. So I think they're going
after him. I'm with 62%. Um I really I'm
not sure about the invasion option.
Still a little bit shaky on that one,
but I am confident they're probably
trying to ou Maduro and his buddies, but
Enforcer, what say you? I would have to
say um one it's a it's a little bit
interesting like Matthew did say uh that
the super secret operation to infiltrate
Venezuela and use our special forces as
well as our CIA agents which could be
largely true to special forces as well
to uh slowly shift the situation in her
favor in Venezuela and then announced
that to the public is probably not the
best idea and generally goes against the
whole idea of the entire situation being
covert or the entire operation being
covert. Nevertheless, one thing I will
say is that the admittance of this sort
of an operation in Venezuela would
generally lead us to believe that the
objective is to ou the Maduro regime by
force. We generally have already been
working off of that premise for a while
here on the channel. And not only that,
we predicted the arrival of special
forces, whether they be CIA operatives
or special forces themselves inside the
country, for quite some time now. As a
matter of fact, it was a good while ago
when the 160th Soore was spotted
conducting helicopter flights near to
Trinidad and Tobago that we largely
stated that it was highly likely that
insertion operations were being
conducted by the special operations
forces of different forms of US
operatives and agents into the country
to allow for either a gathering of
critical intelligence and data directly
from the ground or to get people in
place that can point a laser at a target
and let a JDM stra smack down right on
top of that laser. There's also a load
of other things that they could be
doing. There's a million different
things that CIA agents and the special
forces could be conducting inside of
Venezuela at the moment. But this pretty
much confirms our analysis from about a
week or two ago that that's exactly
what's going on inside the country. Uh
with that in mind, we do not take on we
do not undertake significant operations
like these without some sort of an end
goal. And considering that we're making
it incredibly clear that we're going to
be escalating the direct armed actions
against Venezuela and now conducting
strikes on land along with the fact that
there are special forces operatives
inside the country at this point. It is
becoming wildly clear based on the
picture that's forming in the public
that we are planning on ousting the
Maduro regime or conducting a a
significant armed action against
Venezuela with or without overthrowing
Maduro. One or the other. And that is
incredibly clear. I would have to say
that at this point we're pretty much
just ticking down the clock to seeing
that a full-blown war between the United
States and Venezuela kicks off. And I
have a feeling that that cannot be that
much longer from this point. Venezuela
is pretty much backed into a corner.
There isn't really any way for them to
get any form of foreign support. And the
United States has continued to escalate
the situation to where they either have
to respond or the end result will
generally end up being the same. We're
either going to keep escalating until we
get to the point that we conduct an
armed invasion in Venezuela and
overthrow the Maduro regime or conduct
some sort of a CIA coup to overthrow the
Maduro regime or the Venezuelans are
going to attempt to defend themselves by
firing at the United States which will
give us the proper diplomatic
justification to state that the Maduro
regime is definitely connected to the
narot terrorist groups that we are
attacking inside of the country because
they are now conducting an armed defense
not of Venezuela but of those cartels
that we are attempting to attack.
Therefore, for that reason, we are now
able to go after Venezuela as a sponsor
of terrorism, as an international
diplomatic stance, and that's one that
largely would stand incredibly well, at
least for Western allian countries and
those that generally find themselves
down the middle. Not necessarily Western
aligned, but not Chinese aligned either.
Uh, I would say that that's a very high
likelihood at this point. And I'd also
have to add to uh all of y'all that if
you start to see further increases of US
military activities within this area,
that's not going to be unexpected at
this point. Without a doubt, uh it is
going to be guaranteed that there will
be increased US military operations in
the Eastern Caribbean as a result of
this and directly against Venezuela as
well. I would also say to y'all that
it's probably going to be within the
next two weeks that we see the first
direct uh ground strikes or air strikes
in Venezuela happen on land uh as that
will be the next step in escalations. It
doesn't really appear that the boat
attacks are getting a response from the
Venezuelans at least at this point. So,
they're going to escalate and conduct
ground attacks on Venezuela and then
hope that eventually the Venezuelans
will respond to that instead. Um, it
does appear that a lot of people are
also talking about the US sending the
B-52 bombers off the coast of Venezuela
today and what the United States largely
meant by those actions as well. And
Matthew, what are people thinking about
those? And what are you thinking about
it as well? All right, so we did see the
B-52 bombers go right next to Caracus,
the capital of Venezuela, which is a
very symbolic thing to do from the US
perspective. And also, Venezuela
responded by sending their F-16s
airborne uh, at least one of them of
their fleet of three. So, what was the
goal for the US to do this? And it looks
like the polls almost evenly split. 42%
said it was a test run for an aerial
assault against Venezuela, while 42%
also said it was merely for intimidation
and 11% said they were just sightseeing.
That's all they were doing was going
down there for a nice look at the coast.
Um, and I would say personally, I think
it was merely for intimidation. I think
it's very clearly that reason. These
things took off from Shreveport inside
of Louisiana and they flew all the way
down past Cuba and all the way down a
100 miles away from Caracus merely to
let Maduro know that he is within reach
of the United States. So I'm with the
43%. I think it was merely for
intimidation and granted this was a very
expensive uh intimidation tactic because
they had to fly all the way from
Louisiana down there to Venezuela and
then they're going to fly I assume all
the way back. So it was intimidation but
at what cost? And also, we already have
a ton of boats and ships around the
area. So, I would say Maduro's already
scared enough, but I guess the B-52s are
a little added cherry on top, I guess
you could say. But Enforcer, what say
you? The B-52s are what we call the
spice of life. Uh, in the fact that they
make uh living very spicy and very hard
to achieve. But beyond that, I would
have to say that I would be with the
45%. It clearly was for intimidation.
Um, I would not expect that US B-52
bombers would be used in any heavy form
to conduct strikes against Venezuela.
The B-52s, if they were used to conduct
strikes against Venezuela, would pretty
much leverage the same sort of firepower
that any of the US naval vessels within
the region currently have as well, which
is pretty much just cruise missiles.
B-52s do not conduct carpet bombing
operations any longer. B-52s in their
modern uh air war doctrine use only
standoff weapons. Meaning that these uh
B-52s, a lot like the Russian bombers
you see in Russia, would fly several
hundred miles or you know nearly a
thousand miles away from their target
and they would just start dropping off
cruise missiles out there. Those cruise
missiles would then fly to their targets
and slam right into them. Generally, it
wouldn't make a lot of sense to uh to
send B-52s on that sort of an operation
as the US Navy could generally conduct
those operations on their own with the
amount of tomahawks that they'll have
available at any given moment inside the
region. So, I have a feeling that that
was most likely for intimidation because
it seems that the current administration
considers aircraft to be the most
intimidating sort of a uh symbol that we
have against other countries. The B2
flyover over Putin and Alaska. uh the B2
fly over here, there, and everywhere
else, including the one over Iran where
we actually bombed them. And now this
one with the B-52s flying off the coast,
visibly seen. So, I'd have a feeling
that this is most likely some sort of an
intimidation tactic rather than
anything. Uh, as I would highly doubt
that they would ever use a B-52 bomber
in any sort of a bombing operation
against the Venezuelans, and that would
most likely be left up to the Navy
alone. Um, but
>> I wonder why I I wonder why they didn't
send the B2 stealth bombers down there
because that seems to be the president's
favorite right now is to send the B2s
around. That's like the big bad
boogeyman of the bomber fleet right now
is the B2s, which is a pretty old
aircraft actually. But that seems to be
the favorite, but I guess they wanted to
switch it up a little bit. I guess
they've overused the B2, so they sent
the B-52 down there instead to go
intimidate them. Honestly, I would say
between the two, I think the B-52 is uh
probably as intimidating, if not a
slightly more intimidating uh than even
the B2. At least in my opinion. I'll be
honest with you, the B-52 is a pretty
scary aircraft, especially when you
considering that it can carry uh I think
over a dozen ALCMs on a single aircraft.
That's a fairly intimidating sort of a
thing to think about on the conventional
side of things. None of our B-52s, by
the way, folks, are nuclear capable any
longer. All of them have lost their
nuclear capable status. So they can only
use conventional standoff weaponry. So
just to put that out there, these do not
pose a nuclear threat to the Venezuelans
by any degree. And I also see a lot of
people talking about what we are doing
in Venezuela. And many of y'all will
know and and of course I've got to speak
about it as far as American interests
go. Uh many of you all know that we're
not really a big fan of the US
conducting any actions against Venezuela
currently. And while I definitely do see
a strong case for US military
intervention in Venezuela, I do not see
it at this present day and moment right
now. Once again, like I've said multiple
times, this is something that we could
deal with 5 to seven years in the
future, and the situation would end up
the same as it is right now. However,
when speaking about the Venezuelans, we
do have to understand something, and
this is something that a lot of people
do not get when they talk about foreign
policy. Foreign policy is inherently
unfair. We do not give the same sort of
leeway to our enemies that we give to
ourselves. I see some people saying that
the Russian invasion of Ukraine is the
same thing that the US is doing to
Venezuela. One, that's just generally
not even true on the face of things.
Two, if it is true, even if it is, I
have to tell you all, unfortunately,
that's how foreign policy works. If you
think it's fair, then you're doing
foreign policy all wrong. We are
supposed to be in foreign policy saying
that every action that the United States
of America does is justified for our
national defense. And whenever our
enemies do something that is justified
for their national defense, we denounce
it and say that it's absolutely heinous
and they're equivalent to the devil.
That's how foreign policy works. You
never really get anywhere being fair in
foreign policy. Uh and historically
that's always been the case. But
generally with what we're doing in
Venezuela, a lot of people have been
saying that it has to do with the oil
that has existed in Venezuela. And I
have to tell you that that's not
necessarily the case. Currently,
Venezuela is not a large producer of
crude oil. They do however have massive
uh underground deposits of oil that have
not been accessed yet which does have a
large energy potential within them.
However, that energy potential has never
been tapped. And when we're speaking
about the United States trying to
control the current flow of oil,
unrealized oil deposits that are not
being extracted do not really play into
the strategic picture all that much and
generally uh play second fiddle to the
oil that's already flowing and being
extracted from the oil fields. When we
are talking about the price of crude oil
per barrel around the world right now,
the only thing that matters is the
amount of available crude oil that's
being pumped out of the ground and
shipped by ship or by pipeline every
single day. So the unrealized oil fields
that are not being extracted from have
no impact on the flow of oil or the
price that matter anywhere around the
world. So it generally is not for that
fact as we have very little trade with
the Venezuelans on their crude and
hardly anyone does because their crude
oil is high sulfur content. High sulfur
content crude oil is incredibly
difficult to refine and process and for
that reason a lot of countries would
like to go with uh even other methods
like oil sands shale and so on to be
able to try and get their crude oil
instead of having to deal with the
extremely convoluted and difficult
process of refining high sulfur content
Venezuelan oil. However, what we're
really trying to do in Venezuela is we
are trying to curb Chinese influence. As
many of you all have seen, the United
States of America has been on an endless
campaign since the new administration
came into office on trying to curb or
completely delete Chinese influence
through Central and South America. Many
of y'all will remember that the United
States threatened to annex the Panama
Canal Zone in Panama because of the
rising Chinese influence inside of the
country, which actually was true. there
is a large presence at least at the time
economically inside of the Republic of
Panama that actually forced the
Panameanians to pretty much sever all
economic relations with the People's
Republic of China and largely shift
pretty much entirely economically back
towards the United States of America
ensuring that the country is
economically tender to us and for that
reason will have indefinite access to
the Panama Canal in every situation.
Now, with Venezuela, we do know that
while those unrealized oil fields that
are not being extracted from do not
affect the price of oil or the flow of
oil on a day-to-day basis, we do know
that the Chinese are currently investing
and do have a drilling rig in Lake
Marivo here on the western side of
Venezuela that is attempting to drill
into one of those unrealized oil
deposits and start extraction. That not
only gets China access to this crappy
high sulfur crude, but it also allows
the Venezuelans to make money. And the
more money that Venezuela makes as a
result of Chinese financial ventures in
their country, the more connected
Venezuela becomes to the Chinese,
growing Chinese influence inside of
South America is the end result. For
that reason, that's why the United
States is doing what we're doing right
now. It has nothing to do necessarily
with the cartels. Saying that we are
going to try and deal with the cartels
by taking over Venezuela or overthrowing
Maduro is like saying my entire foot is
frostbitten and and has turned black and
is falling off right now. So to fix
that, we're going to take my pinky toe
on that frostbitten foot and chop it off
and hope that that fixes the frostbite.
The cartels exist beyond the pinky toe.
They exist in the whole foot that is
central and northern South America. And
because of that, there's no way to deal
with the cartels just by dealing with
Venezuela. You would have to deal with
the entirety of Central and South
America to even cause a dent. And still,
they would just rise back out of the
criminal underworld, which is where they
exist, after the United States left. So,
there really isn't any way to deal with
them in that form. And for that reason,
the current publicly announced reasons
for our actions against Venezuela do not
really stand up to scrutiny. And the
more plausible explanation would be the
continued curbing of Chinese influence,
a lot like we did with Panama earlier in
the year. Um, on top of that, we also
were able to hear that apparently there
was either some form of collateral or an
intentional attack that was conducted
against a Colombian vessel. Uh, as at
least one US military strike in the
Caribbean over the last two months
targeted Colombian nationals on a boat
that it left from Colombia, according to
two people briefed by the Pentagon about
the strikes. So, it appears that there
may have been a Colombian vessel
attacked in prior strikes that we've
heard of and seen so far on the channel.
We just not sure which one is the
Colombian vessel and why in the world it
was hit by the United States. Whether or
not the intelligence was faulty and we
hit the wrong boat or whether the
intelligence was accurate and we decided
to hit the boat anyways is unclear. But
one thing we can confirm is that
apparently there is some sort of
Colombian boat that has now been
involved in the situation over the prior
months and has been hit and destroyed by
US forces in the past. Now that we're
getting that information today, a lot of
people have also been talking about the
continued uh claims that the US will
strike uh well that the United States uh
striking a Venezuelan drug boat was
actually not Venezuelan. It was as a
matter of fact Colombian. And Matthew,
what are people thinking about that? And
what are you thinking about that as
well?
>> All right, so this is a pretty
interesting claim right here and it's
got people a little bit concerned. Maybe
the US is not doing proper uh due
process before they target and strike
these drug boats, these alleged drug
boats that are currently off the coast
of Venezuela. Because we heard today the
allegation that is that a US strike uh
apparently struck a uh Colombian drug
boat instead of a Venezuelan cartel drug
boat um in one of these strikes. So,
what are your thoughts about that? And
32% said it sounds likely to be true,
while 26% said it sounds like a false
story. and 28% said it could be a 50-50
chance it could go either way. So, right
now, this is according to anonymous
sources, according to the article that
we currently have. So, take it with a
grain of salt. We don't have anybody on
the record saying this is the case. Um,
but what we're hearing so far is
apparently uh the boat that was struck,
or at least one of them was carrying
Colombians affiliated with a Colombian
terrorist organization. And according to
the allegation, the Pentagon was unable
to determine the individual identities
of each person on the boat before they
struck them. So if that's true, that's a
little bit concerning because right now,
apparently they did not have a positive
identification before they struck those
vessels or at least one of the vessels
and it could have been people that were
not uh identified properly. So that's a
little bit concerning. But at the same
time though, if it was still a drug
boat, I would say, you know, it's within
the right to strike it, but we don't
really know all the details right now.
And it sounds like it's a little bit
more murky than previously thought,
which sort of lends credibility to the
idea that some people had in the chat
that they're not properly identifying
these people. So, I'm going to say I'm
with the 28%. It sounds like a 50/50
chance. And without somebody being on
the record for it, it's kind of hard to
say if this is true for a concrete fact,
but it's a little bit concerning. But
enforcer, what say you?
>> I would also have to say that it's a
50-50 chance. We really don't know who
the source was for this and it could be
that this is true information or it
could have been just a rumor that was
passed around then quickly dismissed due
to an additional corroboration of
intelligence that was had later that we
haven't heard about. So I would
generally have to say I'm also unsure on
this one as well. Uh, I do see a lot of
people talking about the current actions
that the United States are conducting
against the cartel boats in Venezuela.
And I also see some people continuing to
state that the actions are illegal. And
generally, I have to say this to a lot
of people that do not know this or do
not understand this possibly because
they've never heard of this. Terrorist
groups get the same protections that a
group of pirates gets, which is none. If
a group is suspected to be involved in
terrorist operations and there is some
reasonable suspicion that that group is
involved in terrorist activities, it is
generally legal by international law to
engage and destroy those terrorist
forces without any further delay.
Terrorist forces are not treated as
domestic citizens in international law
to where you have to go up with a boat
on a megaphone and tell them to turn off
the boat, hand over the keys and give a
driver's license and proof of insurance.
If they are suspected of being involved
in some sort of terrorist operations, as
the cartels have been declared
terrorists by the United States of
America, they can be engaged with and
destroyed by any measures that the
United States deems necessary as that is
how terrorist groups are dealt with. A
lot like piracy is also dealt with in
the same way. If you do not know, the
Somalian pirates of the early and late
uh well the early 2000s and the late
2010s were dealt with in the same way. A
a Somalian fishing boat could be seen
off of the coast. And if you don't know,
generally pirates and uh terrorists like
the cartels, for example, use fishing
boats because why the hell would they be
transporting drugs on a yacht? You know,
that wouldn't really make too much
sense. They're trying to make a profit
on this stuff, so it's obviously going
to be cheap. So, they're going to use
the most cheap thing available, which is
a fishing boat. If you see any evidence
of weapons in that boat or if you see
any evidence of any sort of illegal car
contraband in the vessel, that pretty
much gives you the reasonable suspicion
to say this is either a pirate or it's a
terrorist and you can open fire without
any regard for the safety or health of
the persons on board the vessel or for
the sake of the vessel for that matter.
either. If you don't really want to see
this sort of a thing happening, it's
best generally uh to not be a terrorist
or involved in any sort of piracy or
illegal cartel operations. That's really
the best way to go about it. I know a
lot of people like to say that it's
wrong to do this, but at the same time,
I haven't seen anyone having any issues
with the United States of America in the
past conducting air strikes against the
Houthis, which also use fishing boats to
attempt to board and seize commercial
shipping inside the Southern Red Sea. I
have seen nobody make any exceptions to
the Houthis. And if you watch the
footage of us blowing up their fishing
boats, it is pretty much impossible to
tell if any of those guys are involved
in Houthy forces or operations because
the guns are sitting at the bottom of
the boat where you can hardly see them
and you just see a whole bunch of guys
standing around in a fishing boat going
towards a larger shipping vessel out in
the middle of the Red Sea. So once
again, you can make the same claim
there. Should the US Navy go up to every
single Houthy terrorist inside the
southern Red Sea with a rib and a giant
uh megaphone out going, "Stop. We need
to ensure that you're terrorists before
we fire on you because we would be very
sad if you weren't a terrorist.
Generally, that's not going to happen.
Probable cause would say that they're
terrorists involved in terroristic
operations and as long as US
intelligence is able to say that with
some reasonable suspicion, the strike
will most likely be approved. Um,
>> well, I think I think what people's
problem is with it, and honestly, I
would say I personally have a problem
with it myself, is we're not really
getting a very clear answer from the
government as to how they're choosing
which boats to strike that are leaving
Venezuela. Um, right now it we really
don't know anything. It could be as
simple as the US is targeting any vessel
that's heading out into open
international waters from Venezuela and
assuming that it's a drug boat and then
they're saying, "Let's strike it." Right
now, we don't know if that's the case.
It could be that simple, the method of
engagement. It could be that simple. Or
it could be that maybe the intelligence
agencies had some type of pre-warning or
pre-nowledge that that vessel was
leaving port with drugs and they already
had it in their sights and once it
entered international waters then they
strike it. But it seems a little bit
concerning that there are allegations
being lobbed around that the US does not
have positive identifications on the
individuals in the boat before they
actually strike it. Because let's let's
say let's say for hypothetically let's
say this. Let's say a Venezuelan
fisherman, which you know, I'll get into
some details about that in a second, but
let's say a Venezuelan fisherman's
heading out in into international waters
and the US mistakes them for a cartel
member and then accidentally strikes
them with no due process. That would be
obviously not good whatsoever. But to
the US's credit though, I will say this,
most of the boats have been struck, they
obviously have large outboard motors,
multiple large outboard motors, which is
not normal for a fishing vessel. Also,
they do appear to be carrying some sort
of brick like style payload like kilos,
I guess you could say. So, it's also a
giveaway that they could be hauling some
illicit substances. So, it's a little
bit tricky. I will admit it's not as
straightforward as I think some are
making it out to be. And I do see the
concern from from several. I would have
to say though that at the same time if
there's any reasonable suspicion that
something some vessels involved in
terrorist operations like the
transportation of drugs, we don't have
to verify the individuals on board that
vessel. Every single Somali pirate boat
may have not had every single person on
board that vessel as a pirate involved
in piracy. Someone might have just been
along for the ride. That still didn't
stop them from getting obliterated by
any navy that was patrolling the area
during the antipiriracy patrols that we
had in the late 2000s and the early
2010s. If reasonable suspicion is
involved that the boat is involved in
some sort of terroristic or illegal
contraband activities, generally the
difference is given that they are most
likely all on board assumed to be a part
of terroristic operations or piracy and
they're given generally no quarter.
>> Yeah. But the the problem with that is
they're they're taking they're taking
the lives of the people on the boat. So
I would say having a suspicion is not
enough in my personal opinion. That's
just simply not enough. Obviously
Venezuela has people that are within
their country within their borders
conducting narot terrorism. But at the
same time we can't say that every single
boat leaving Venezuela is a narot terror
boat. That's a little bit too far in my
opinion. So typically the US has had
very very strong rules of engagement.
But right now, we're not getting any
publicly stated knowledge right now from
the US officials about what the current
engagement rules even are. It seems like
it's either they're keeping it secret or
they want to keep it away from the
public's eye, one or the other. So, the
US would probably be wise to at least
explain how they're targeting these
people because I mean, the argument is
being made by a lot of people that
they're not doing enough due diligence
before they're taking these lives out on
these boats. and the public deserves an
answer to that since the US military and
tax dollars are funding potentially uh
the execution of people on these boats
leaving Venezuela. So I can see the
argument personally. I could see the
argument, but also just really quickly
folks to present a counter and be a bit
of a devil's advocate to this. If they
go through the efforts to prove to the
public that the that everyone on that
vessel or the vessel itself and its crew
were involved in some sort of uh
operations the part of the cartel which
are designated terrorists and therefore
are provided no protections under
international law or at least according
to the United States. If they were to do
that, they would have to show exactly
where that boat was loaded with drugs.
So they would have to compromise how
they got that information in some way,
shape or form. and also show exactly
where that is, which could lead to that
entire operation within that specific
building or that specific part of a port
being upended and sent elsewhere.
Meaning that the US would have to then
try and find out where they are again,
making interdiction a lot more
difficult. They would also have to start
saying the exact names and uh people who
are involved, which if there is an
informant on the ground which is
involved in gathering that information,
that might start to single down who an
informant may be as obviously they will
have survived the strike and they
wouldn't have been on board the boat.
Another thing that we would have to also
add is the path that the boat took,
which also might be a heavily traveled
cartel boat path, which then would start
to make the cartel change their courses.
And then the United States would have to
conduct significant intelligence
gathering to figure out where the
courses have been changed and where
their new shipping routes have been
spotted or have started to form. And all
those sorts of things could start to
cause heavier issues with interdiction
of the cartels. If we were to assume
that all of these vessels that have been
hit so far are a part of the cartel and
could also start to compromise the
safety and health of the informants and
operatives on the ground that might be
providing us with this information that
is helping us to be able to confirm that
these strikes are 100% verified and can
be conducted. I I would say personally
like I see where you're coming from, but
all the all I'm asking the US to simply
do on this is to basically uh to satisfy
the critics of this whole operation is
to simply release a simple statement
about how the engagement is currently
taking place. Simply tell the people uh
the way they're targeting. They don't
have to go into names. They don't have
to go into details. All they can simply
say is they had information about who
was on the boat before they even got on
the boat. They knew they were heading
out to the open waters and they had
planned the strike properly and simply
reassure people that they're not wildly
firing at any boat that's leaving
Venezuela because right now they've not
really made that clarification. They've
not even bothered to even try to clarify
the situation. And I think that's
leading to a lot of people to assume or
speculate that the US is being careless
here when we really don't even know the
answer. Yeah, I I would say that that's
definitely the case. Still, folks, I'm
just trying to make sure folks to give a
counter to this. I see some people going
off in the chat. I'm just trying to give
a counter so that way we have two sides
uh to this thing and we consider all
options. But I generally would say that
it's fairly questionable to be
conducting strikes and give the public
practically no information on why these
strikes are being conducted to any
degree rather than their cartel boats
and just take that at face value. That
is a little bit odd. You would think
that they would at least go through the
effort like say the Ukrainians do to
confirm with some sort of video evidence
by a drone that there are contraband on
board and to show that at least some of
the operators are involved.
with the cartels to some extent or some
degree. So that way there was some sort
of probable cause uh to conduct the
strikes. Uh but still it is a little bit
interesting and also with the rumor
floating around that one of these boats
may have not even been Venezuelan. It
may have been Colombian that is also a
fairly interesting sort of a development
in its own degree. Um but moving on out
of the Venezuelan situation and on into
the rest of the news that we've been
able to give for the night. We have also
been able to confirm that the Russians
have been in a bit of a pickle today in
many ways than one. One, I want to bring
y'all to this one. This this story is
actually a little bit crazy. The
Navarisk,
which was spotted several days ago on
Sunday near to the area of uh Britany
and France, has actually ended up
passing through the English Channel, the
North Sea, and has finally made it into
the Baltic. We were able to confirm that
today as this picture did show a uh
Swedish Grippon on off of the southern
coast of Sweden as well as a uh Swedish
uh steers class MCM following along the
Naveris as it's been surfaced apparently
the entire time through the transit and
it's now made its way finally into the
Baltic. We also got additional pictures
of this as well, including this one
right here, which is a closer up picture
of that kilo class submarine. And it
does appear that the Naveris has
actually started to pick up speed. And
now it looks like we're getting a better
timetable of what has been going on with
the Naverisk. So, let me give you all a
quick breakdown of what we know so far.
First off, the Nveris was spotted
servicing several miles off of the
straight of Jialter, apparently with a
significant diesel leak on board, and
called for the tugboat to be able to
come to its rescue. The tugboat then uh
attached to the submarine, pulled it
through the straight of Jialter and
apparently out into the coastlines on
the eastern Atlantic. Here the submarine
sat for apparently around a week or so.
It doesn't appear that its propulsion or
speed has greatly been affected at this
point and it affected repairs as best as
they could. Finally, the submarine went
underway about a week or a week and a
half after the original report and that
was when it was first spotted by the
French Navy near to the area of Britany,
this peninsula here. uh on the west
coast of France. Since then, several
days later, from Sunday to today, which
is, if I'm not mistaken, a Wednesday, uh
if I'm if I'm not wrong with that, I
think it is a Wednesday, Matthew. Um if
Okay, Wednesday.
>> So, from Sunday to Wednesday, it has now
made it all the way around the English
Channel, the North Sea, and around
Denmark, and has now made it into the
very entrance of the Baltic Sea, which
is where we are seeing it right now. Um,
so at the moment it appears that the
submarine has finally been able to pick
up some speed and is making its way back
to Crunchad where it'll most likely get
repairs near St. Petersburg. This has
probably been one of the most
interesting stories of a submarine that
we've seen so far because we have never
heard of a submarine at least recently
having to surface because of a leak of
fuel, diesel fuel directly within the
hull of the submarine. So we'll have to
see if it makes it back to port. It
looks like there's a high chance it may
now. But another Russian submarine was
also spotted near to Sweden today and
was also being observed by some sort of
a Swedish Coast Guard vessel. And this
was a picture of the Russian submarine
that was taken.
>> Honestly, man, this wild to see this
kilo class right here. This uh this
pride of the Russian fleet just sort of
like limping its way back to port.
Honestly, it's a joke really. This thing
keeps popping up randomly surfacing
every once in a while and just scaring
the hell out of like random countries
all over the place. And the thing's not
even a threat anymore. Like, this thing
is barely surviving at this point. And
the interior of the submarine itself has
diesel leaks in it and also probably has
diesel fumes in the interior of the sub
itself. So, it's really crazy. Also,
look at this. I mean, it's being tailed
by a bunch of stuff. This thing, this is
an embarrassment. Like, this is a huge
embarrassment for Russia at this point.
And I'd be very curious to know what the
crew is doing. Like, is the full crew
still on board this thing? And how are
they even functioning uh with the diesel
fumes inside of it? That's that's a huge
question for me. Yeah, it is a it is a
fairly interesting sort of video. Also,
by the way, this is a totally different
kilo class submarine that was spotted
today rather than the Naveris. This one
was actually spotted far north in the
Baltic um by the Swedish Coast Guard.
This one is the Naverus that just
entered the Baltic today. So, two kilo
class submarines have been spotted in
the Baltic uh over the day.
>> Interesting. I thought it was just one
the whole time. I I thought it was just
one. Uh I actually no it's it's two
because you can see here that this kilo
class submarine has some sort of
barnacles growing near to the sonar um
dome at the front of the sub. You can
see that here on this one whenever we
look up close at least the closest we
can get. It appears to be a little bit
cleaner. Although it's a fairly far away
picture but from what we can tell it
looks to be a little bit cleaner towards
the bow. Uh and so and also on top of
that the weather states are completely
different in this picture and this one.
So this was a different submarine that
was actually spotted today further on up
in the Baltic from what I could find
because no one also mentioned that it
was the Naverisk. Everyone just
mentioned that it was some kilo while
this one was clearly the Naveris that
had finally entered into the Baltic. So
um that's generally what we're knowing
at least for now. But it does appear at
the moment that the Russian Navy is
having a bit of an issue with the kilo
class submarine the Naverisk. And if I'm
not mistaken, folks, I think, if I'm
remembering correctly, wasn't the navery
the one that was blown up in that dry
dock in Sevastapal that one time?
>> Uh, wait, repeat the name again.
>> Uh, the Navaras.
I don't I don't I don't recall like to
be honest with you. There's been so many
incidents with their submarines, it's
hard to keep them straight. That was a
long time ago.
>> Let me go let me go pull up the NASA.
Um, let's see here.
Uh, let's see. in Syria relief. Uh let's
see now say submarine return to sale. So
apparently it was not the one that was
directly hit. Um but the story about uh
the fuel leak is widely noted online.
But unfortunately folks I cannot confirm
if this was the submarine that was
directly hitting the dry dock uh inside
of Sevastapol. We'll have to try and do
some more research and figure out what
exact kilocclass submarine that was of
the Black Sea fleet that ended up
getting um obliterated by a couple of
Ukrainian missiles that hit Sevastapol
and that dry dock in particular. Uh but
still Oh, it was the Rost of Undone.
Yeah, it was the Rost of Undone that was
hit in the dry dock. Yeah, big thanks to
James Carter there.
>> Yeah, that was it. And also, by the way,
I was reading real quick because I was
curious um what are the effects of
diesel fume exposure? Because I would
assume that this Naverisk Russian
kilocclass sub probably keeps surfacing
mainly to get fresh air for the crew. I
would imagine because if there's diesel
leaks inside the submarine, then
naturally fumes are also being emitted
as well inside the submarine's uh shell
itself. So it looks like diesel fume
exposure leads to short-term side
effects like eye, nose, and throat
irritation, headaches, and
lightadedness. Uh, long-term exposure,
which I think this crew right here might
be able to qualify for that depending on
how long they're on board the sub. U,
long-term exposure is linked to lung
cancer, respiratory diseases like asthma
and heart disease. Um, and also possibly
even kidney damage as well, depending on
the duration and the amount of the
exposure. So, uh, quite serious
obviously to be exposed to that that
long. And I would imagine they're
probably surfacing and trying to open
hatches or something so that way they
can get fresh air inside. So, I don't
know how they're doing it to be honest
with you. is kind of like a feat of uh I
guess human uh endurance if this is true
because I don't see how they're enduring
it.
>> Uh you know the Russians they're just
built different I guess. I really don't
know. I mean maybe I mean we can't rule
it out. You know I mean they are they
are exposed to vodka at incredibly young
ages. So maybe this is just like I don't
know vodka fumes to them. Maybe it's
something they're used to.
>> Maybe so possibly because I'm not sure
if I'm not sure if we could endure that.
>> I I don't think I can. And I don't think
I'm built differently like that to be
entirely honest. Uh but we also do have
other major news from around the rest of
the world. And I actually got to move
y'all into the uh Indian subcontinent as
well as East Asia as a whole as we have
had some fairly interesting news coming
out of these areas today before we
circle back into the Middle East into
the United States which is also a part
of our East Asia news segment because of
the trade war and then back into Europe.
But before we get to all of that, I do
want to take a moment to say that we
have had 63,000 people here uh at the
start of the first hour of the show that
have watched. And we also have 15.4,000
people here with us right now. And I got
to say a big thanks to all of you all so
much for watching so far. We still have
a lot to go. But if you are new to the
channel and you have been enjoying it,
please make sure to like, comment, and
subscribe. We'd love to have you all
here. And we cover this news every
single day at 10 p.m. Eastern time, six
days a week, every day but Mondays. Uh,
but in the meantime, folks, to give a
big thanks to all of you all for
watching so far, we are going to make
sure to get a couple of questions from
the chat. And I've actually understood
that we have quite a many of those
already. The chat's been busy tonight.
And so, Matthew, what do we got?
>> All right, so our first super chat here
goes to Brian Mckenry, who puts in a
massive $200 donation. A massive
support, by the way. Absolutely massive.
And thank you very much, Brian, for that
generous support right there. That's uh
by far one of the largest ones we've had
in a minute. And Brian said, "Keep up
the good work, gentlemen, and it's good
seeing the news that matters is getting
out there and God bless and thanks for
what you do." And thank you massively
for the support, Brian Mckenry, and
helping this channel to keep on running
with that humongous support. I got to
say, it's an absolutely wonderful and
incredible thing to know that folks like
you enjoy the news that we put out there
and love to hear us continuing to put
the news that matters out there to the
world at large. Something that people
don't hear on most other news networks,
either on YouTube or on television. And
I got to thank you massively for that
support because if it was not for folks
like you, we would not be able to keep
the lights on here behind the scenes. We
wouldn't be able to keep the meek and
feeble enforcers working hard every day
to get this news out to each and every
one of y'all. And to you, I have to
thank you massively for the kind words
and the support because they're going to
help us to keep doing what we've been
doing for 1,330 days straight. So, a
humongous thanks to you so much once
again. I hope that does address that
incredibly well. And also I I I see some
people in the the chat continuing to
talking about the Venezuela thing. And
really quickly I got to say this because
a lot of people a lot of people are
saying things about this that lets me
know that this is a very political sort
of a topic to some because here's here's
what I'm seeing folks. Either one, the
strikes against Venezuela are entirely
justified because the president is an
infallible god among men or it is the
president is the demon of humanity.
Therefore, anything he does is wrong and
therefore no strikes can ever be
justified under any premise. I don't
know if a lot of people know this that
are saying this in the chat, but the
channel is apolitical and it's entirely
based on the analysis side of things. We
don't really care if people like the guy
or not. We just care about the analysis
of whether the action is legal or not.
And generally, that's what we're arguing
here on the channel. I'm being a bit of
a devil's advocate by saying these
things could be justified. Not that I
agree with that completely, but still
putting out a an opposing view so that
way we at least have a difference in
thoughts and ideas here on the channel
to make it a little bit more
interesting. But I cannot I I cannot
make this clear enough for a lot of
people. I'm not going to sit here and
say that the entire situation with
Venezuela is justified because the
president is a lovely man or the entire
situation with Venezuela is unjustified
because the president is a living demon
on earth. We don't work that way on the
channel. We never will. And I've just
got to say this because the amount of
chats that I'm seeing at this point that
are telling us to say it one way or
another just because of their political
opinions on the president is a little
bit tiring considering that we just do
analysis on the channel and we really
don't care if people like him or not
because we don't even get into that here
on the channel and it doesn't really
matter as far as foreign policy is
concerned whether you like someone or
not. So, I hope that addresses that the
best that I can, at least at this point.
Um, and puts that sort of stuff to rest
because I'll be honest, some people are
getting a little bit too vehement on
that. And we're probably going to have
to start curving that sort of a deal in
the chat to some degree because it's not
even analysis based, it's opinion based
in both directions. But anyways, with
that, we are on to the next one. All
right. And our next super chat here goes
to none other than Ted Marshall. And Ted
puts in a $50 donation. And thank you
very much, Ted, for that generous
support as well. And we do appreciate
that. And Ted said, "Let's go." He said,
"I'm finally on stream while it's live."
And long live the L.
>> Hey, let's go, baby. And I got to thank
you massively, humongously for the
support and helping this channel to keep
it running. I got to say, it's great to
have you here, Ted Marshall, here on
stream while it's live. A lot of people
eventually make what we have always
called the pilgrimage to be live on air.
And I got to say that I thank you
incredibly for the support and helping
this channel to be here. and being live
with us on air. A lot of people love to
be here live on air when it's happening
and I love to know that folks are still
making pilgrimages to make it to where
they can be on air live on air with us
as we are covering the news. And so with
that, a huge thanks to you so much once
again for the support and helping this
channel to keep on running. I hope that
has addressed that incredibly well. And
with that, it is time for us to move on
into the next one. But a humongous
thanks to you once again. And I hope
you've been having a good time here
while we've been live. All right. And
indeed, and also our last one here goes
to Brian Maddox. And he put in a 50 as
well. And a huge shout out to you,
Brian, for throwing in that 50 as well.
And also helping to keep the channel
running. And he said, "What's the
overunder on Ukraine?" uh kissing uh
wink wink nod nod the limping sub. Uh
any way we can encourage this action,
love Ukraine, LSA, and thanks for the
great channel, guys.
>> Hey, thank you for the huge support,
Brian Maddox, and thank you for the
great question and the kind words.
Unfortunately, there really isn't a way
for Ukraine to hit the sub, though. It
would be great if they could. It's
definitely um limping and apparently
sickly at this point. But sadly, there
just really isn't a way for them to do
it without violating NATO sovereignty in
the process. For Ukraine to conduct a
drone attack on that sub, they would
have to fly a drone from Ukraine and
into the Baltics. And no matter how they
try and um skin that cat figure of
speech, to get the drone into the
Baltics, it will have to fly through
NATO airspace someplace somewhere. So,
if they wanted to do that, they're going
to have to get approval from NATO. And
NATO is not going to give that impro
that approval because they're not going
to want to look like they're directly
involved in the sinking of a Russian
sub. So, then that means that Ukraine's
drones are pretty much landlocked and
really can't get to the sub most anyway.
There is one way that they can get to it
though, and this is one that I usually
do not bring up because it would be
really hard to pull off. But if they
launched a drone in the churno blast in
the north of the country, they could get
it into the area of the Gulf of Finland
right when the submarine's returning
back to port at Crunchad Island. If they
pull that off successfully, they
actually could hit the sub considering
that it's surfaced and it doesn't appear
to have the ability to dive any longer.
Considering that it's probably trying to
vent the diesel fume filled air. So that
is a possibility. Unfortunately,
however, striking it where it is in the
Baltics, he's out of Ukraine's abilities
due to the fact that they would have to
fly all the way around NATO airspace and
then to conduct the strike then and
there. And also, folks, I I see Gregory
Cay this is a great this is actually a
pretty good one. Gregory C said better
to ask for forgiveness. It's going to be
really hard to ask for forgiveness if
they do that and then that starts to
escalate a larger conflict between
Russia and NATO on the spot. that could
start to distance Europe from Ukraine
because now Ukraine is putting their
interests at Europe's detriment and that
usually is where the sort of amicable
relations we see right now would come to
an end and cease. Case in point, um the
relationship between the United States
and Israel has been strained recently
because the Israelis conducted an attack
on Qar without our approval in a way to
try and ensure that we had no way to see
the attack was even happening until they
had already hit their targets inside of
Qatar. And that generally started to
strain our relationship because they
were about to screw over our US forces
that are based inside of the Middle
East. A lot of them in Qar that might
have been kicked out if the Qataris got
angry enough about that incident. And
also the fact that the US wouldn't even
deal with the incident or admonish the
Israelis for that matter. So uh
generally it's something that's doable.
Like that's actually an interesting
idea. It's something that's doable, but
that also has to be measured out. And I
think that the NATO uh nations would be
probably absolutely pissed, royally
pissed, honestly, if the Ukrainians did
something like that and flew a drone
through their territory to conduct an
armed attack without their approval at
all and then just ask for forgiveness
later because the tensions are
incredibly high right now. A match could
set the whole thing off and the
Ukrainians doing that could be the very
match that could set this whole thing
off before Europe is ready or before
they're mentally prepared to deal with
what lies ahead. Uh but I hope that does
address it the best I can. Very great
question by the way, uh, Brian Maddox
and everyone else tonight. And I got to
thank all three of you all for the
massive support once again. And we will
be getting to all of the other
questions, super chats, and live chats
that we have uh, throughout the rest of
the night after we round out the rest of
our news. In case you're new to this,
>> also real quick, enforcer before we move
on, I ran one last poll. wasn't going to
do this, but due to all the controversy
in the chat and how wild this has gotten
so far in the chat, I wanted to run one
last poll on the Venezuela situation to
see exactly what the majority of people
thought about this question. Real quick,
let me go over it and then jump to the
rest of the news here. The question on
the poll says, should the US government
provide an explanation of the rules of
engagement on Venezuelan targets? Uh 52%
said yes, it's needed for clarity. While
32% said no, it might violate OPSSEAC.
And 12% said citizens don't need to know
in the first place. So on this one, this
is my personal opinion. Once again,
you're free to have your own. This is
totally subjective right now. Um it's
totally up to your opinion. So I would
say I'm with the 52%. I believe the
government should air on the side of
caution and be more transparent than
untransparent with the American people
because right now and once again when we
always launch these large military
actions overseas, it's US tax dollars
that fund those operations. So under
that premise, I believe that citizens
always have a right to know within
reason. Now there's some things that we
can't tell the American people. I I know
that myself. There's some things for
OBSC reasons that cannot be disclosed.
Everything can't be wide open. But at
the same time though, we can get a basic
explanation for what the government's
doing with certain actions. For example,
striking boats in international waters.
Uh because right now there's a lot of
critics saying that they're not properly
doing identification and that would ease
those fears of the American people that
are funding this operation. So I would
say I'm with the 50%. Um that's I feel
pretty strongly about that. But
enforcer, what say you?
>> I would have to say that I actually
would be with the 50% as well. And while
I have played devil's advocate
throughout the night, I do have to say
that I do not like the position that the
United States government is currently
taking with the public about informing
them on the situation. It is incredibly
important for the nation, whether people
like to think about this this way or
not, that the public is informed about
what the government is doing as much as
they possibly can inform the public to
that greatest extent an end. It is
through the concept of the government
being elected by the citizenry of this
nation that the government owes to the
citizenry a large amount of
explanations, receipts and transparency
about what exactly we were doing across
the world. And while I would have to say
I completely understand why they are
taking the cartel approach to the
Venezuelan situation rather than openly
stating they're curbing Chinese
influence, that sort of a a difference
in statements can be understood. and not
giving statements however about the
rules of engagement and other uh factors
involved in US military action against
Venezuela is something that I not only
find condescending to the public uh but
I also find it uh incredibly
non-transparent to the public that
elected the current administration
that's deciding to take these actions
and these actions should always be
within the purview of the public to make
their own judgment on whether or not
those actions are acceptable or not. If
I was the president of the United
States, I would try and provide as much
information as possible to the US public
about the strikes that the United States
is conducting as long as it did not
violate any sort of operational security
or the safety or lives or lives for that
matter of the informants and operatives
that are on the ground helping to
provide the information um that is uh
leading us to be able to conduct these
sorts of strikes if that's even involved
on the ground. Um it's always important
to remember folks that while operational
security is a paramount importance for
the military at the same time we have to
balance that operational security with
the uh duty and obligation that the
civilian administration which operates
the military has to the public which is
elected the civilian administration
which operates the military uh to tell
them exactly what we are doing, why we
are doing it and to let those public
citizens have an opinion on whether or
not they agree with those actions. uh
whether or not they the information is
good or not, transparency is generally a
key fortitude and uh fortress of
democratic opinions and also for that
matter uh knowledge which allows people
to make their own decisions on whether
or not they agree with what the United
States government is doing or not on a
domestic level. Um, but still I hope
that does address that the best I can at
least.
>> I I do think I do think though they
should at least be baseline transparent
because even in the past like when we've
gone to war in the Middle East, yes, the
government did technically lie. And it's
not technically, they did lie about the
weapons of mass destruction. So that was
one thing that wasn't good. But at least
they gave an explanation for why we were
going to war. Even if it was a lie, they
at least tried to explain because they
understood that the public needs some
answer for why we're going to do that.
and they gave one. Now, obviously, it
was not the truth, so that wasn't much
help, but at least they made an attempt
at it, I guess you could say. But right
now, we're really not getting much of an
explanation whatsoever, except for
naroterrorism. That word keeps being
thrown around a hell of a lot. And we're
really not getting any specifics about
anything. I'm not saying to go and
expose the names of uh CIA operatives. I
am definitely not saying that. I'm also
not saying to start exposing where our
ships are located, the exact locations
of our air force, nothing like that. Not
saying that whatsoever. The public
cannot know things like that and they
don't have a need to know things like
that. But what we do have a need to know
is what the US military is planning to
do objectively on a large-scale picture
because we have a right to know as
citizens that our military and our tax
dollars are being spent on something
that's in American interest. And the
government doesn't have a right to do
things without even informing the public
while they're using our tax dollars to
do it. So that's my opinion on it.
Transparency is important. Some people
have gotten way too complacent on that
and they just think, "Oh, the
government's got it. they've they've got
our best interest at heart and they
might, but it doesn't hurt to get that
transparency to ensure that they're
taking the action that's in our best
interest in my personal opinion.
>> I would also have to add um adding on to
that a little bit that telling the
public we were able to verify that all
of the members on the board the boat
were involved in cartel operations. The
vessel was carrying contraband and for
that reason we took the action to
destroy the vessel in international
waters or even in Venezuelan territorial
waters. That is a far greater depth of
transparency that's being given right
now because all we hear right now is
they are naroterrorists and we blew them
up and that's it. That's all we hear in
every single time we get the information
about another boat being hit. And that
is quite a small amount of information.
And while some people will take that at
face value, which is entirely
reasonable, there is a good bit of
scrutiny that should be given to whether
or not that's actually being done or the
best interest in mind of following the
proper rules of engagement or at least
giving some sort of due diligence to
ensuring that whatever we're hitting is
the actual target that's supposed to be
hit. That's generally what I would say
would be the best approach to make
because at least then we're not
violating any operational security but
we are uh going through the efforts to
say our intelligence has provided uh
that this that and for that reason this
is why we conducted the strikes. Uh so
that's what I would generally say at
least at the base premise of it. Of
course though I also have to say that
another thing that's important to
remember is that too much transparency
especially in military operations can
also be deadly and dangerous. We could
get informants killed, we could get
operatives killed. Uh, a lot of people
would have their lives on the line if
you started to share too much
information. And so then we also had to
protect those people's lives and their
health as well by not divulging too much
information to the public
simultaneously. Uh, but still I hope
that does address that um the best that
we can at least from what we have at the
moment. But it is time for us to move on
into the rest of the news that we have
for the night and we are going to be
making sure to get into that as deep as
we possibly can. Moving on into uh the
regions of North Korea, we have been
able to hear that according to some
information provided by South Korea,
Russia is helping North Korea to build
submarines armed with ballistic missiles
that can strike the United States. They
actually already have one of these, but
it appears that Russia is now helping to
build more of these submarines. We're
not expecting them to be extremely
capable. The one they currently have is
certainly not capable. Um and it's um
it's a little bit interesting to say the
least. Meanwhile, South Korea has also
stated that the North Koreans are now
setting up anti-tank barriers and
ditches along the border with South
Korea at key border checkpoints. The
Republic of Korea's Joint Chief of Staff
confirmed satellite imagery showing that
Pyongyang's military is conducting
fortification work along the MDL or the
uh or the demilitarized zone. Uh on four
sections, concrete anti-tank obstacles
are being erected, stretching about 10
km in total with a height of 4 to 5 m
and a thickness of around 2 m. Uh so it
does appear that the North Koreans are
once again conducting war border uh
defensive actions which is incredibly
interesting. It might just be some sort
of a diplomatic posturing or it may
actually be something further than that.
We're unclear what it is at the moment
but we are going to be keeping an eye on
the Korean uh the Korean situation and
see what's going on continued as a
result of that. In the meantime, the
People's Republic of China has also
violated uh Filipino waters again. As we
have seen that the Filipino Coast Guard
today has discovered a second yellow
floating buoy um installed at the
northern tips of the area of the Scorbur
Shaw uh during a maritime domain
awareness flight conducted this morning.
Um this follows another buoy that was
placed at the center of the Shaw
yesterday, highlighting ongoing
activities in the area. From what we
understand, these buoys have been placed
by the People's Republic of China or the
Chinese Coast Guard. That was so loud
that gave me a heart attack.
>> Oh man, that had me uh stroking out over
here, I'll tell you.
>> I'm not going to lie, I actually just
had a heart attack right there. Hang on
a moment, folks. I got to I got to get
my blood pressure down a little bit from
that one. That was actually quite scary.
Uh but there was a Chinese J16 that was
also uh following along this Filipino
helicopter that was flying over the area
of the Scarboro Shaw. once again showing
that the People's Republic of China is
attempting to exert direct control over
the Shaw, which is right off of the
Philippines. If y'all have not seen the
Scarboro Shaw, it's nothing that
impressive, but it is a Filipino
territorial holding. The Scarboro Shaw
is kind of like a uh a reef is the best
way to explain it. Uh off the coast of
the Philippines, it generally is
considered to be an island. And for that
reason, it extends Philippines, well,
the Philippines territorial and
exclusive economic zone waters a good
bit farther out into the South China
Sea. The Chinese are attempting to try
and take direct control of this thing
and claim that it's theirs. And all
these actions appear to be a part of
that continued effort as of today. Now,
it's time for us to start moving on
towards Afghanistan and Pakistan. What
we've all been waiting for tonight, the
real shebang in a literal sense. But you
know something folks, we got to get
y'all to one more thing. Modi has
promised he's given an assurance to the
president that India will not be buying
oil from Russia. I have a feeling that
that might not be true because they kind
of seem to have been unfazed in buying
oil from the Russians for a good minute.
So I don't know if that's true. Um but
you know I I have a feeling that that's
a that's going to be an interesting move
from the US and that also shows that we
have apparently have to be completely
benevolent if we are involved with the
Pakistanis uh in their actions in
Afghanistan right now. Modi most likely
wouldn't do anything that would benefit
the United States like stopping the
purchases of Russian oil. So I would
have to say as far as the Pakistan
Afghan war, I think this is a further a
proof that the US isn't involved in
between the Pakistanis or the Afghanis
in any sort of a preferential way uh to
support whatever is going on. I think
we're completely removed from the Afghan
Taliban uh well the Pakistan Taliban
situation that's happening right now in
that area. Moving on from that, however,
we have also uh seen as well, at least
within Pakistan and Afghanistan, that a
ceasefire has now been put in effect. A
48 hours ceasefire is now in place
between the two sides. Um, it appears
that this didn't last too long from what
I can tell because I can't really tell
you all of these strikes happened before
or after because it appears that the
sequence of events is murky. Uh, as best
as I could find,
>> it happened before uh the ceasefire went
into effect. So far, I've not seen any
violation of the ceasefire. All those
strikes that we saw on camera were
before it went into effect.
>> Okay, good. Because I was trying to find
out that earlier today and I saw
multiple different moments that we
retweeted uh that the ceasefire had gone
into effect from 15 hours ago and so on
and then these strikes were happening 15
hours ago and so on as well. As far as
our videos were being reposted, I was
like, did these happen before or after?
Uh, according to enforcer Matt, they all
happened before, but we did see that
Pakistan landed some pretty heavy blows
once again on the Taliban before the
ceasefire went into effect, including
these fires, which were seen inside of
Kbble at an oil storage facility. We
also have another clip of that fire
right here as well.
>> Oh my,
>> it's kind of cooking. Um, we also saw
another clip of air strikes within an
unidentified area of the country with
this showing multiple bombs that
impacted a central area of a city.
>> That was Kandahar right there, actually.
>> Oh, really?
>> Yeah, that's Kandahar right there. Four
bombs. Kandahar.
>> That's Kandahar. Let's move that right
down there, then. And we also get to see
down near the area of Spin Bulldock,
which is right along the border, uh that
it appears that some sort of a uh
Pakistani showing led to 12 civilian
deaths and 100 injured uh because of the
barrage that happened on this town
today.
Oh my god. It's a Taliban tank. Can you
believe Can you believe it is a uh T62,
it seems? Oh my god.
>> That's more modern. That's more modern.
They had the T-55s rolling through the
street, too. I don't I don't know if you
have that video or not, but they were
whipping it through the street.
>> Oh, no. I don't have that video sadly.
Um, but now we can see them panning back
towards the border area and then back
towards the tank. I can't believe it,
folks. Taliban armor. Wow. And it's kind
of going slow. I think the thing's
having like some transmission issue or
something. But anyways, moving on from
that, we do confirm that at least at
this point, the ceasefire appears to
largely be in effect. No TAMs have been
issued for tomorrow. right now, at least
within that region, it is already
tomorrow. Um, and we are waiting to see
what is going to be happening as a
result after this 48 cease uh 48 hour
ceasefire has gone into effect. Uh, and
Matthew, what are people thinking about
that and what are you thinking about
that as well? All right, so if y'all saw
the short video earlier today, I covered
this in detail, but before these strikes
were carried out, we saw the Pakistanis
and the Afghan military, the Taliban,
sending tons of equipment to the border.
I mean, I mean, a lot of it. And
granted, most of the equipment the
Afghanis were sending to the border were
uh like museum pieces. It was T-55
tanks, old artillery, uh very old stuff.
So, not very good for the Taliban. Uh
and the Pakistanis were sending their
own tanks and other equipment to the
border. So, uh the ceasefire went into
effect literally as both sides were
armed to the teeth and literally sitting
there waiting to fire at each other. So,
very precarious right now. So, how long
do you think the ceasefire is going to
hold up? 58% said the ceasefire will
fail soon while 13% said the ceasefire
will hold and 25% said it's a 50-50
chance of either. So me personally, uh
this one's hard to tell. I said that in
the short video earlier today as well.
It's hard to tell what this one's going
to do because I was not predicting the
Taliban to start fighting the
Pakistanis. And this is totally
unexpected. So where this one leads is a
little bit of a tossup. I'm actually
with the 25%. It could be a 50-50 chance
of either because I really don't know
what the Taliban uh mindset is toward
this war at this point. I'm not sure if
they really have the will to fight it.
They might be willing to sort of just uh
smooth this thing over. It's hard to
tell. But enforcer, what say you? I
would have to say I have a feeling the
ceasefire might fail. Um, considering
how dstabil well considering how
decentralized the Taliban is and also
usually how aggressive these different
factions of the Taliban are, it's highly
likely that this ceasefire could break
just because of the Taliban. I would
assume that that might be the case.
We'll have to wait and see. We could be
surprised. The cease this ceasefire
could remain in effect for a while, but
we don't really know. And honestly, this
year has been just one of the most
unpredictable. So, it might hold or it
might not. Um, I don't want to sound
like a politician here giving a
non-answer. But I would have to be
within the camp, then I'm unsure
actually. I really don't know what's
going to be the end result of the
current 48 hour ceasefire and whether or
not this whole war is going to restart
again not that long afterwards. Uh, also
really quickly, I got to return back to
the Venezuela thing. Don't mean to be a
dead horse, but I I got I got to return
back to it because I've seen this
comment made so many times in the chat.
I'm like, I got to address it because I
don't think some people are
understanding this. Some people are
saying that the US government has
declared a large part of the American
population terrorists as well. And I
know that that's kind of a little bit of
a domestic political thing, but I got to
explain this because it is a difference
that a lot of people are not getting.
Okay. One, domestic terrorists are
totally different than foreign
terrorists and how they are treated. If
you do not know, many groups inside the
United States have been labeled as
domestic terrorists. Probably one of the
most famous ones that come out of the
south is the Ku Klux Clan, which has
been a domestic terrorist group since
the 1960s. That is something that's
commonly known. There are a load of ter
domestic terrorist groups inside the
United States, but domestic terrorist
groups are treated differently because
domestic terrorist groups are usually
made up of uh of US citizens. So they
are of course subject to the protections
and laws of the United States of America
and any actions conducted against them,
it's usually conducted by the FBI, which
is generally for internal affairs inside
the United States of America and dealing
with situations like that. On the other
hand, you cannot expect the same sort of
treatment being given to groups like uh
say Antifa and the KKK and so on and so
forth and I think a couple of others uh
that are out there to be the same sort
of treatment that the Houthies or
al-Qaeda or the cartels are going to get
because they are foreign terrorist
groups and therefore they're not
provided any protections at all under
international law or anything for that
matter. Um, don't know if youall saw
this, but the United States has been
conducting for about 20 years now this
crazy thing called the war on terror
where if we find out that anyone is
involved with terrorist operations to
any degree and we have enough evidence
to prove it, we'll just hit them with a
hellfire from 30,000 ft up 20 miles away
and we call it a day. We've been doing
that for 20 something well 24 years at
this point just about. That's how it
works with foreign terrorist groups.
Domestic terrorist groups are treated
differently. And also I find it a little
like I got to say folks I know that
there's like this whole political thing
going on these days about this that and
another inside the United States. But
designating groups inside the United
States as terrorist organizations is
literally nothing new. It has been going
on for decades now. And so trying to
make that the equivalent of you or
you're going to get air strike by the US
government because you because it's a
domestic terrorist group and trying to
make some sort of a similarity between a
domestic terrorist group and a foreign
terrorist group doesn't work because
there's never been any historical
similarities and how the US government
treats the two different groups. Uh so
that I hope that addresses that the best
I can um because that's just a false
equivalency that doesn't exist in real
life. Um, but anyways, moving on from
that and on into the rest of the news
that we have, we have also been able to
get some reports from Israel. As we have
heard that apparently the Israelis are
already carving up a brand new war plan
um in the IDF to prepare for a plan to
defeat Hamas in Gaza if fighting
resumes. We have also heard that
Netanyahu stated today uh that Israel
has given the US new intelligence that
shows Hamas has access to more of the
bodies than it's claimed to have access
to. So, I do not know what that
statement is supposed to mean um or what
that is going to largely entail, but it
kind of sounds like the Israelis are
already setting themselves up to start
another conflict with Hamas here soon by
saying that the Hamas forces have
violated some sort of an act of goodwill
in the ceasefire by not disclosing a
number of remains uh that they did not
declare to the Israeli government. And
for that reason, they're going to start
this all over again. Maybe. I don't
know. But the the
>> Is regulated? Is is it regulated? I
mean, why are you regulated?
>> Why are you regulated? Is a ceasefire?
Is it written down? Is Is it regulated?
>> Have you ever heard of Burger King? I
can tell you something. I make great
hamburger meat. Like, it's a It's not
made out of cattle, though. Um, but
beyond that, I would have to say a
little bit of a interesting development
coming out of Israel. That's all we have
out of the region today, but still an
interesting update. Moving on out of
that, however, it is time for us to get
on back into the whole of Europe and to
cover all of the developments that have
been coming out of this area as of
today. First off, it appears that the
Secretary of Defense was inside of
Brussels today and did state the
following. Um, uh, if this war does not
end, uh, if there's no path to peace in
the short term, then the United States
along with our allies will take the
steps necessary to impose costs on
Russia for its continued aggression. If
we must take this step, the US War
Department stands ready to do our part
in ways that only the United States can
do. So, we are now back to square one as
we were in the earlier part of 2022 when
the war started that many years ago to
where we're saying that if the Russians
continue the war, we're going to start
imposing further punishments on them.
Um, so, you know, better late than never
that that sort of a change happened, but
you know, that's what we now has as an
update and official stance from the
United States Department of Defense on
foreign policy as of today. In the
meantime, we also were able to hear that
uh the uh Secretary of Defense's
aircraft had to take an emergency detour
after apparently one of the aircraft's
windows um either broke or caved in and
led to a depressurization of the cabin,
which forced the aircraft to circle back
and return to the United Kingdom to
either wait for a replacement aircraft
or to affect repairs on the 757 to allow
for it to make its uh adventure back to
the United States. Um, so a fairly
interesting sort of an occurrence right
after the meeting that was had with NATO
today. But moving us on into Bellarus
and the Ukraine war itself because we
also have a huge amount of news out of
there. We have also been able to hear in
Bellarus today uh that there is a
further unification effort that's now
being done between the two. I also have
to say that this picture of Putin and
Lucenko looks pretty odd. Very
>> It's very progressive.
>> It It is. It is quite progressive, man.
Not going to lie. Um, what's he reaching
for, by the way,
>> huh?
A little sus. I'm not going to lie.
>> Remember that Lucas is a man of a very
large proportion. You don't remember
that. Remember,
>> man, Lucas Shingo said, you have to get
that. Have you ever seen a Russian
sausage? Like, bro, it's like getting
your hands back. Honestly, bro,
questionable as hell. I'm not going to
lie, man. picture. It It exudes an
energy that is not good. But beyond
that, the Bellarusian dictator Lucenko
has approved a protocol allowing Russian
citizens permanently residing in
Bellarus to vote and run in local
elections. From now on, Russians will be
able to vote and run for seats in
Bellarus's local self-government bodies.
So, the unification of Bellarus and
Russia continues. It practically is a
satellite of Russia at this point to the
degree that there's really no autonomy
in Barus anymore. The military is
entirely subordinate to the Russian
military. The population is now being
supplanted by the Russians themselves in
Barus. So, it's pretty much a Russian
colony at this point, actually. Yeah,
that's kind of interesting honestly.
Like, I'm just I'm just trying to
understand this whole vibe of this
picture right here at this point because
Luca Shenko's got the top of his shirt
unbuttoned. It looks like I can't tell
if he's wearing like is that a gold
chain under the shirt?
>> A silver chain under under the shirt.
Um, and obviously a very uh uh portly
fellow, a very large fellow. And then
you have Putin over here with the rolled
up sleeves on a dress shirt uh looking
disheveled. This is just a very odd
photo. Like I'm not trying to say
anything about it or anything, but it's
just a very odd photo. Like something
about it is really off. And also, what
are they doing? Sitting in like the
orange grove or something. I really
don't know. Also, by the way, has anyone
checked to see if Luc Shenko's neck is
turning green from that chain? Man, I
tell you what, you got to remember it's
only the finest chains and go.
>> It's made of that glass silver, man. It
turns your neck freaking green. Um, all
I I got to say, this whole picture is
just the oddest thing. I'm not going to
lie. Like, it gives off the worst energy
possible. It's like that picture of
Putin riding that horse shirtless, you
know? It's like the same sort of energy
that comes off
Yeah, I I think so. Honestly, this one
might top the horseless uh or the not
the horseless, but the shirtless horse
photo. It might top it actually.
>> Where where's Lavro? Lavrov wants in on
this,
>> bro. Uh Lucas Shenko out here going in
Belarus, uh healthcare is free, unlike
in the wiki capitalist list. Uh Putin,
let me give you a testicular cancer
check right now. He's like doing it
right now. It's like, bro, I do not know
what the hell that picture is, but it's
odd. Anyways, moving on out of Barus and
that weirdness that happens in that damn
country every day. I got to be honest
with you, Barus is just the weirdest
place. It's about as weird off as Turk
Menistan. And that's a whole rabbit hole
for a whole other time if you just asked
yourself when I said that. What the hell
goes on in Turkministan. You don't even
want to know. It's weirder than North
Korea. It's actually more authoritarian
than North Korea, crazily enough. But we
won't talk about that right now. We'll
leave that for a whole other time in a
whole other topic. But that one's a
crazy rabbit hole. Anyways, moving on
down into Ufa. We did get to hear inside
of Ufffa uh that the oil refinery has
been hit again. Oh no, another oil
refinery has been hit in Lego City. Hey,
you can build the firefighting team and
bring them to save the day. Um, that's
not happening. This is Russia, so there
is no fire brigade.
Was that guy wearing an AT? What the
Bro, I swore that that was an ATF coat
for a second. Oh no. Oh no.
>> Um, it's the uh Department of Killjoy
here and we're here to make sure you're
not having fun. Um, we can see the Leudi
flying in.
Flying right into
it. It calls a big O.
The Ukrainians are attacking the oil
refinery. Hey, you can build the patch.
I thought that was you for a second
right there.
>> You thought it was you?
>> I thought that was you. Like the guy
talking in that video. I thought that
was you.
>> Oh no, that wasn't me.
It kind of sounded like you a little
bit. But
>> what are these guys doing? Shaking hands
in the parking lot. They were They was
like casually doing a little uh
understanding handshake there while the
drone's getting hit. They're like, "Good
job, comrade." Yes, good job to you,
too. Let's see here. Let's watch that.
Oh, now the video wants to buffer. Okay,
so we'll just move on from that one.
They didn't want us to see that. That's
the video that the government doesn't
want you to see. But moving on from
that, uh, this is pretty much a
duplicate of all the same clips just in
a different format just in case the
other one didn't load. We put that there
just for redundancy purposes. Moving on
out of Ufa, however, and down towards
Saratov. Oh, buddy. Folks, you better be
lucky you do not live in Russia because
their safety standards are non-existent.
A Russian bomber accidentally
accidentally dropped a 1,000 lb high
explosive bomb on a Russian city. On the
12th of October,
>> whoopsy daisy. On October 12th, a bomber
took off from Engles Air Base for a
strike on Ukrainian cities. But soon
after takeoff, it dropped one of the Fab
500s. It failed to detonate and no
casualties were reported. According to
Russia's emergency ministry, local
authorities reportedly tried to cover up
the incident. I got to be honest with
y'all folks. If you ever thought that
America was bad off, at least you don't
have bombs falling on your head from the
aircraft that are taking off from the
nearby air bases. That generally doesn't
happen here in America. But it does
happen in Russia. So, you know, count
your blessings, folks. At least America
isn't that bad off that a bomb's
dropping on your head. You know,
Matthew, honestly, that statement from
the president a long time ago when
someone was like, "What if the ceasefire
holds?" And the president was like, "I
don't know. What if a bomb dropped on
your head?" That's kind of true if
you're in Russia. Like, it could just
happen. A bomb could just drop on your
head any minute of the day. It could
actually happen.
>> Yeah, it would suck to live in Russia.
Honestly, I don't like that. It doesn't
feel like you have like basic safety in
Russia or anything like that. Regardless
of what propagandists go through like
the one street in Moscow that looks
nice. Uh I mean, I just wouldn't want to
live in Russia. It just seems like it
sucks. You know, you got to drive a lot
of you got to struggle to get gas. You
got to pay exorbitant prices in relation
to your income to buy groceries and
stuff. Like it just seems like it kind
of sucks. You know what I mean?
>> I don't know. What if a bomb dropped on
your head? And that's honestly what can
happen inside of Russia. Russia is a
really bad place. Looks like an absolute
hole. I drove down the streets and
when I pulled over my car, I went out to
go into the restroom at the gas station.
I came out and my car was on cinder
blocks. The gas tank had been siphoned.
These people are in bad shape, everyone.
Real bad shape. I went into Sarat the
other day and a bomb really did drop on
someone's head. I said there's like a
figure of statement in the Oval Office
and turns out that actually happens in
Russia near to the air bases. Many such
cases whenever they send out their
aircraft, they're not sending their
best. They're sending their worst.
They're sending the ones with defective
bomb payloads, defective bombs. They're
sending out shitty pilots, pilots with
mental issues. They try and eat
themselves while they're flying the
plane. Really weird. I I called up Putin
and I said, "Sir, sir, what the hell is
going on with this?" And he said, "I
don't know, but I'm going to keep the
war going." and I said, "Well, that's
kind of shitty because I kind of need
you to stop that." But anyways, with
that, it is time for us to move on into
the rest of the news that we have from
inside of Ukraine directly. And we do
have a decent amount. Moving us on into
Ukraine and into the Kursk blast. We did
get to see that the Russians were
getting hit by the Ukrainian border
guards inside the Kursco blast.
Oh, is that a Russian in the trees? Oh,
it is. Oh, he's making a run for it.
That's smart, but sadly not smart
enough.
He's doing like those people doing those
horror movies. He tripped and fell. Oh
god, no. And sadly, it appears that he
ended up in the horror movie. He was the
first one to die.
We can now see the strong coming in
giving a little lesson. Oh.
And we see them continuing to hit
multiple Russian forces
just endlessly, folks. It's without end.
It's without ceasing.
Was like a big hit right there. Looks
like they really uh did a number on that
one.
>> Oh yeah, they they really did a number.
Oh, dang. Dude, that thing whipped
around quick.
>> Like, I wasn't expecting that either. It
sort of whipped around a little too fast
for your reaction, you know.
>> Honestly, it kind of did. We also got to
see them slamming Russian forces as well
within the sum blast here, you know,
doing their usual tricks, flying them
into the buildings, into the houses,
into the streets. You see a couple of
Russians down there in that ditch.
You know, honestly, uh, when you said it
was in the sum blast and you said that
they were trying to, uh, watch out, it
reminded me of the old Japanese phrase
sum, which means excuse me, or I'm
sorry. Um, so I guess you can say the
drone said that. Suman,
>> that's deep. Are you still wearing that
that prefecture shirt?
>> Uh, no. I'm not wearing my F1 shirt
today.
>> Oh, I was wondering. I was like, man,
you must be wearing your shirt. I was
like, because you're thinking of the
Japanese. Um, by the way, folks, Matthew
actually has a Japanese F1 shirt. Um,
it's actually pretty cool looking. Um,
and I was thinking that he was wearing
it today, but apparently not.
>> It's Suzuka, you know. Suzuka. Suzuka
Circuit.
>> Oh, the Suzuka Circuit. I've never heard
of that one. Is that like an electrical
connection?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's really It's
really It's really good. It's in Suzuka,
Japan.
>> Oh, well. Uh, maybe we'll take a look at
that here on the uh on the question
segment, maybe. I I don't know. Uh, but
we can see them continuing to slam the
Russian forces.
And I mean, goodness gracious, folks.
Here it comes again. Right into another
house. And another one.
Oh, right into the window.
And another one. And this house is on
fire. Someone called the fire
department. Well, that's the end of that
clip. And moving on down the way and
into our location unknowns. We did get
the Russian casualty report for the past
24 hours, which was quite impressive.
And Miss Ni gave the record stated that
389 drones is the 12th highest daily
loss. Troop losses now 10 days over
1,000 and daily average for October to
date exceeds both August and September
and is close to the July average. And
over the course of the past 24 hours, we
have been able to see that 1,070 Russian
soldiers have been wounded and killed
along with two APCs, 141 supply trucks,
three main battle tanks, 43 artillery
pieces, and 389 drones along with two
anti-aircraft warfare systems. A fairly
good total overall. Moving us on into
the area of Vchansk, we also were able
to see the Ukrainians hitting Russian
forces here. They were hitting them here
and everywhere.
Oh, here they come. Here's a little
Russian position with an AK and a
backpack. And they blew that up. Oh my
goodness. What in the hell was that?
Look, it's a drone player. Oh.
>> Oh wow.
>> It's a little drone war, everyone. It's
like Star Wars the Oh, and they got it.
Oh my god. That was actually crazy. And
then they got a boner.
>> Wild.
>> Oh, look. A dirt bike. They got a dirt
bike sitting over in the corner. Oh,
look at that. Oh, look at him. That is
something.
>> We have a road uh section. Oh, what the
hell?
>> And then we got this Eural um with a
little funny hat on.
>> That was very clean on the inside of
that Euro. That's shocking, actually. It
was like kept up very nice. Was kept up
cleaner than the outside of the vehicle,
>> man. The Russians and cleanliness.
Crazy. Oh,
>> and another one.
>> Oh, and another Oh my goodness. They go
for the cab every time. It's crazy like
that.
And right into the front of the issu.
and right into the front of this Euro as
well as this one.
Oh, look. A Bing Shelling Jeep thing.
What the hell was that? That look like
one of those old style like car pickup
truck hybrid things that were hideous
that they used to make back in the day.
>> Yeah, honestly, it kind of did. Yeah.
Yeah. Oh, dirt bike. Oh, they got it.
Oh, another one. And they got that. Oh,
look. Oh,
>> central. Oh my god. They're destroying
them all. Oh, and they're getting some
SPGs. Look at this.
This is a Mr. S.
You need a Mr. S for your Mr. B.
Right in the driver's edge.
Uh, Nuke Duke uh said modern war is
brutal. To be fair, every war is brutal.
Honestly, I would have to say that old
uh wars that happened before the year
1900 are probably the most brutal
because you had a really high chance of
dying before you even saw combat from
disease and other sorts of afflictions.
Uh even just exposure, just dying of uh
overexhaustion from the heat or the
cold. Um, like honestly that's really
brutal when you think about it because
honestly your chances of even surviving
the war at all were quite low because
you could just die getting to the war
itself. Uh, high chance of likelihood of
that. But anyways, moving on from that
and down into the area of the regions of
Solidar. We also got to see them
slamming Russian forces in this 30th
brigade within this direction.
I think they missed with that one.
I think they might have, but the Bhanka
was abandoned. And so I guess you could
say it was kind of collateral.
Oh, and the Smokey,
man. You know, I just I just wondered
like when a Russian uh when a Russian
gets off like the battlefield and they
go back to their normal life, you know,
for the that's very rare, by the way,
for the average Russian soldier.
Usually, they don't uh don't quite make
it, unfortunately. Uh obviously, from
the humanitarian perspective, that's a
bad thing. But um when they come back
and they get a mortgage uh at the bank
and they say, "What do you want to put
up as collateral?" And the Russian says,
"Aen collateral."
Ah, get it. Cuz they are, man.
>> Come on. I'm I'm I'm bombing out here. I
mean, help me. I I get no respect around
here. I get no respect, man. What do you
call it when you mix a Russian with an
alcoholic?
>> A uh
uh a soldier,
>> a Russian. Ah, moving on from that.
Moving on from that. That joke made no
sense by the way folks because I use the
Russian as a buildup to say if you mix a
Russian and alcoholic you get a Russian.
Like it might be funny a little bit but
not really. But anyways moving on from
that we also get to see uh that the
Russians are getting pushed back by the
93rd brigade near which is north of
Prosk and this was an area that we were
able to confirm the Ukrainians took
several hundred meters in today which is
quite significant. And it appears that a
large amount of the Russian forces
within this area were also destroyed as
well.
Well, that's the end of that clip. Very
nice to see. Good to know. The
Ukrainians are pushing the Russians back
a little by little. And further on down
the front, we also got to see them
hitting Russian forces down here in the
68, the Jagger.
You almost think they're German with the
way they they say Jerger, but Oh. Oh.
Oh, man.
>> Yeah.
>> Man, they Oh, man. Did a diddy on him.
No, Diddy.
>> He was He was uh you know in that truck
and everything.
>> Ain't nothing like a Diddy party. Ain't
nothing like a Diddy party. Like I would
think there's probably something better
to do. You know, folks, uh folks knew um
that they were screwed whenever they
showed up at Diddy's place because if
there was ever uh baby oil covering all
the steps uh entering and exiting the
building, you knew it was over for you
once you stepped inside. It's like a mob
hit nearly.
>> Allegedly. Allegedly.
>> Allegedly. Allegedly.
We always have to say allegedly, but we
can see them hitting here another
Russian uh relay system. And it does
appear the 68 Jagger says a brand new
outro. Again, they are obsessed with
outros, but honestly, they're getting
better with each and every passing week.
But moving on from that and out of the
Praks area and further on down the front
and towards Vasilka, we did also get to
see them hitting Russian forces down
here. Take a look at this.
We see them bringing them on in.
Look at them go slamming the Russians in
this area. We also see another drone
down there helping out. Look at that.
How kind of him.
You know, folks, if you ever sneeze in
front of the president of the United
States and you say, "Uh, oh, excuse me."
And he says, "Oh, of course you're
pardoned." Is that a presidential
pardon?
>> Um,
I don't know. You know, if you if you if
you bump into the president and you say,
"Oh, pardon me." And he says, "Oh, of
course." Is that a presidential pardon?
What are what is a presidential pardon
even? You know, like they always say
that it's uh like it's pretty much an
absolvement of your crimes and the
president's pretty much giving you kind
of like a free pass almost. But at the
same time though, folks, like there's so
many different things that could be
classified as a presidential pardon that
have nothing to do with that, you know?
Like I I I wonder about that.
I don't know. Like like for example, if
the president who is the executive of
the United States tells uh one of the
staff of the White House to go down to a
bathroom and clean the toilet, is that
an executive order?
Uh
I don't know. There's so many questions
that I have like there's there's many
and I just I don't get answers to them.
We will have to go to the White House
one day and ask the president these
questions directly and get answers. I
need to know. Is that a presidential
pardon? And also, is that an executive
order? I have no clue. Anyways, moving
on from that and down at the Harrison, I
do have to move youall into some news
that is incredibly unfortunate today as
there does appear to be clear proof that
the Russian Federation actually attacked
a United Nations humanitarian convoy
that was entering the city of Harrison
today directly with FPV drones. Uh we do
not know the exact amount of wounded and
killed that were involved in this strike
particularly. Uh but it does appear to
be another blatant uh attack by the
Russian Federation and their armed
forces on the humanitarian assistance of
the United Nations within the area which
is heavily war afflicted and does have a
large amount of wounded and killed
civilians from inside the city of
Harrison from prior strikes. Uh so a
very unfortunate thing to see but with
that we are going to be moving on out of
that area and on up into Kev to cover
the speech from President Vimir Zalinski
here on this very day of the war. And
that's if the presidential website
loads. Uh hopefully it does. It was
loading earlier when I got this thing.
So we can only hope everyone. We can
only hope. Uh and we will have to we'll
have to see. Uh you know,
>> you're waiting for a very long time to
see if Zalinsky comes through. Look,
he's taking a sick selfie. He said,
"Look at the patches on my wall. Nobody
can compete with the patches on my wall.
It's a fantastic thing. Better thing.
It's the some say the best thing." We
are adding thumbnails to the videos to
try and make them appeal to a larger
audience. And I have to say that it is
kind of working a little bit. But
nevertheless, here is the speech. Peach.
Peach.
President Trump.
Yeah.
Premier Minister
for
America.
Foreign
speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech.
Foreign
speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech.
Maximum shop.
polit
And with that folks, that is the end of
the news here on day 1,330
of the world new stream and it's time
for us to move on into the second
segment of the stream where we get to
talk to all of y'all. And I got to say
that tonight's been a crazy night.
85,000 people have watched this stream
so far. Y'all have talked to y'all have
seen us talk about all kinds of crazy
things tonight, like the adventures of
the United States of America and their
endless hunt for Captain Crack Sparrow,
who is currently on board the Black Tar
traveling through the area of the
Caribbean. You have also heard us
talking about all kinds of amazing
things like for example Zalinskan has
amazing ways with the pianos sponsored
by none other than um than some others
uh that are involved in the uh in the
industries that we will not mention here
on the air because that might end up
YouTube might not like that. Um we've
also talked about all sorts of other
things like uh like everyone's uh trade
everyone's favorite trade war along with
many other topics that have come from
throughout the world across the entirety
of the day. We have had a lot to talk
about and it is of course time for us to
move on into the second segment of the
stream where we get to talk to all of
y'all. And I'm not going to lie, I'm
about to crack up at the moment because
the whole Captain Crack Sparrow thing on
the Black Tar is honestly a fairly
creative one. But we are going to be
making sure to talk to all of y'all in
this segment about literally anything
and everything. We will be talking about
the super chats. We will be talking
about the live chats and anything that
y'all want to talk about. Hell, we might
even pull one out of the live chat here
and there in the middle just to spice
things up because a lot of youall have
some incredibly interesting takes in the
midst of the question segment that are
just pretty cool to talk about. Um, but
still, we are going to be making sure to
talk about all of it, each and every bit
of it. Uh, and of course, I hope you all
have an incredibly fun time in this
segment. It's honestly our favorite
every night because while the news is
our bread and butter and a lot of y'all
are here for that, it is always fun just
to get to riff with you all and talk
about whatever or just come up with
jokes on the fly. Uh, so that Matthew,
what do we got? I understand that we
have one last poll to cover. As a matter
of fact,
>> yeah, I gotta say that Captain Crack
Sparrow thing, that's crazy, honestly.
But really, we have no time for it. We
got something serious to talk about here
in this poll. It says Ukraine says,
also, by the way, I'm joking. No, wait a
minute. Wait, was that that guy who was
like, "Let Thousand Blossoms bloom." But
I'm not going to spend another minute on
it because there's another man being
eaten to death by a crocodile in the
outback or something.
>> Yeah. Stop. I didn't want you to think I
was like taking a shot at your joke or
something. No, dude. Dude, if you if you
had put some soul into that, it would
have landed, dude. Because I knew
exactly what you were doing when you're
like, "We're not going to spin." And I
was like, "Wait a minute. You're doing
it so dead pan. It just sounds real.
It's like It sounds like real
frustration." I was like, "No, dude." I
was like, "Do good." I was like, "I knew
what you were getting at." Indeed. But
we do have something serious to get to
here. Right here in the poll. It says,
"Ukraine says Russia is making plans in
Bellarus." That's literally what they
said, plans in Bellarus. And they've
notified NATO of the disturbing info
that they're not sharing with the
public. And what is it? So 35% said
Russia is about to take over Bellarus
and that's the big story. While 36% said
Bellarus is planning to attack Ukraine
and 18% said Bellarus is planning to
attack NATO. So right now we don't know
what this is. Ukraine has allegedly
gotten some very disturbing information
that they found so disturbing they're
keeping it secret and only telling the
NATO officials behind closed doors. So
we don't know really what this is. It
could be any of these options or maybe
even other options, but I would tend to
believe considering the fact that Russia
just changed Bellarus's law to that way
where I can't remember it was like the
Russian officials can be elected to
Barucian positions or something. It was
something like that. Um, it sounds like
Russia might be planning to do a soft
takeover of Bellarus, but that's just
purely speculation. I have no idea what
so much he's talking about and nobody
really does except for the NATO
officials. But enforcer, what say you? I
would be with a 34% that Russia is
probably about to try and annex
Bellarus. It's highly likely going to
happen because Bellarus could be
classified as an auton like a
semi-aututonomous republic inside of
Russia and Luc Shinkos could still hold
his position a lot like Katarov does in
Cheschetchna pretty much as a dictator
of that region with Putin as the
overlord which is pretty much how it
works already. So I'd actually say
that's probably what's happening right
now because we do know that the Ruski
the Russian world which is what that is
in English does include Bellarus. So
eventually at some point Russia is going
to have to annex that and make it a part
of Russia like everything else. And so
that might be what they're working
towards right now at the moment because
clearly if you look at everything in
Barus they might as well already be
subordinate of the Russians practically
a part of Russia without it officially
being Russian. And so I'd have to say
that's probably what they're working
towards is pretty much just moving it
into being another semiautonomous
republic of Russia. And while Lucenko
would still be able to hold his at least
power on paper and still be a prominent
leader and figure head of the
Bellarussian state, they still would be
a part of Russia under the direct
control of Putin, which literally is how
it exists right now pretty much. Yeah, I
would say so. Also, by the way, before
we move into our questions tonight, I do
want to go over a couple more pieces of
news that we were not able to cover
during the main segment real quick. I'm
just going to quickly touch on them
because we can discuss them a little bit
further if y'all want, but they're just
sort of like minor topics tonight that
we had. Um, we did hear today that US
officials have doubled Argentina's
bailout to $40 billion, by the way, so
that way the country can avoid default.
So, that's a pretty big piece of news.
Also, by the way, the US did formally
declare a trade war with China today,
and they praised the tariff hikes. And
also, the real kicker today is the
Pentagon actually formally confiscated
the press badges of everybody that did
not sign onto that pledge that the
Pentagon was demanding that the press
signs on to, and they officially kicked
them out of their offices today. As you
can see right here, these were the press
offices, and there's all the logos that
were on the doors of the press offices
in the Pentagon. So, um, quite a doozy,
I must say. uh one of the first times I
think that might actually be the first
time in history that the press has ever
been kicked out of the Pentagon like
that. So uh disturbing to see I must say
from a purely journalistic standpoint
this is terrible. Um and the it seems
like the Pentagon is not backing off
this whatsoever. So all these
journalists are kicked out as you can
see they had dedicated offices. They
even had like lights on the wall that
had on air when they were on the air.
This was dedicated. It was a longtime
office and they were just kicked out
today. So really quite quite wild to see
that and quite disappointing to see that
I must say. But Enforcer, what say you?
>> It was very disappointing. Uh also, by
the way, folks, I actually tailored our
news to not mention the uh this as well
as the Argentina situation. I just muted
those from our news, but that did
happen. Um you know, for some people who
were saying, "Oh, this isn't a bailout
of Argentina." Well, we gave them
another 20 billion today. Uh so, you
know, kind of looking like a bailout.
It's what it is. Um and also also on top
of that folks, one other thing, um is
the whole deal that happened in the
Pentagon today along with the official
declaration of a trade war. Uh the whole
deal in the Pentagon, I got to say
folks, is not good-looking at all. Um
transparency and openness to the press
is something that is generally
understood to be fairly American sort of
a concept. And I don't really like the
idea of kicking media out. Uh, and I
also have to say this folks, you have to
detach, you have to divorce your
personal feelings of the modern media
from what we're looking at right now.
Because here's what here's what actually
happened today. A bunch of people who
were in the press, which is a first
amendment protected sort of an activity,
have now been restricted from access to
the Pentagon largely regardless of their
political affiliation because they
weren't willing to sign a loyalty pledge
with the US government on allowing the
government to pretty much censor stories
and approve stories that they wanted to
put out and didn't want to put out.
That's pretty much what happened today.
Not really a good move. And it's also a
fairly concerning one because you know
that could start to uh road away at
other freedoms that are protected under
the first amendment like the freedom of
expression or speech in general. Uh
because generally that's all kind of
baldled up into one. If you start to
abridge the freedoms of the press, you
can easily start to move on to abridging
the freedoms of expression and uh speech
in general. Uh so you know it's not
really a good move. And you also I also
got to say folks, it's a really bad move
when literally everyone's being removed
from the Pentagon, including Fox News,
um, which seems to have a lot of, uh, a
lot of favor with the current
administration and they're also being
booted out along with everyone else.
That's not really a good look. Uh,
that's incredibly concerning.
Yeah, I would say so. Honestly, I'd be
very curious to know um because I don't
talk to these people on a daily basis. I
might have talked to maybe a couple of
these reporters from maybe once in a
while, but not often. But I'd be curious
to know how these reporters that were in
the Pentagon are going to start
reporting on this from this point
forward because I I still believe they
have their job. So the Pentagon
reporters that were stationed there,
it's like what are they going to do from
this point forward? Are they going to
schedule meetings with these Pentagon
officials outside the Pentagon? Because
I don't think technically um these
journalists have a right to get into the
building anymore. So I'm not really sure
how it's going to work. I guess they'll
have to set up separate meetings with
the people they want to uh interview
outside of it, which is kind of weird.
And now they don't have access to
actually go to these people's offices to
interview them on the spot. Now they
have to wait for their office to get in
touch with them. They have to get all
this correspondence and that's going to
limit the ability to report on this
stuff. And I think that was the intent
behind it was to limit this because I
would say personally in my personal
speculation I think what led to this
right here is because of the signal gate
problem. I think Signalgate largely
sparked this whole situation and instead
of the government tightening their belt
and actually properly having OBSC they
decided to punish the press instead
which is obviously wrong as hell. Uh so
I'm just I'm very disappointed in this.
Uh every American should be very
disappointed in this. This is something
that's not uh strengthening the press.
It's only hurting it. Um and that's just
that's not even partisan. That's just
objective.
>> Also saw someone say in the chat uh this
is Jaka say that's putting it very
vaguely at best. It was done to protect
against leaks with the Iran bombing.
That is that is not supposed to be
punished on the media because of leaks
in the US government. If there's a leak
in the US government like that uh and
they're leaking out classified
information, you have to find that leak
and then hold that personly accountable.
It's not your fault as a med as a member
of the media or a member of the public
that someone inside of the US military
is deciding to breach their
confidentiality agreement with the US
government or violate their security
clearance by telling you information and
whistleblowing about it. That's not the
fault of the press. That's the fault of
the person who leaked that information
to the press and they're really the only
one to be held accountable. That's not a
problem of the press. Also, on top of
that, you're looking at it in a very
one-sided and optimistic sort of a way
there because everything's always a
double-edged sword. With this sort of a
thing happening now, who's to say that
these whistleblowers when something
really bad happens, like, you know, say
for example, let me let me think of a
good one. Um, let's say with how much
the US military or the National Guard is
getting involved right now inside of
internal US affairs, let's say one day
if everyone signed this uh pledge of uh
pledge of loyalty to the Department of
Defense, let's say one day that there's
some sort of a university protest and
the National Guard shoots into the crowd
and kills a couple of students. And
because all of these major news
organizations uh took this pledge of
loyalty to the Pentagon and nobody can
cover the story for that matter, then
nobody hears about it. What if that
happened? And that's not that far to say
that it could happen. That actually is
what happened at Kin State a couple of
decades back is that the National Guard
fired into a crowd of students and
killed a couple of them um as a result.
So that's not something that far out to
say that that something like that could
easily happen. And then because the
Pentagon is able to approve and deny
stories that are involved with the
military in general from being released,
they can just deny everyone the ability
to release those stories. And pretty
much at that point, it's an abridgement
of free speech or expression and also a
huge abridgement of the press's rights
and abilities to be able to speak on
stories whether they're good or not. And
I also see some other people who were
also saying some uh counters to us
saying this is generally not a good move
by saying, "Oh, these uh these people
were unamerican." You have a right as an
American citizen to hate the United
States of America. Like it sounds
counterintuitive, especially what this
channel always says because the enforcer
Matt and myself are very pro-American.
But as an American, I understand that it
is a right in this country that if you
are an American citizen and you want to
hate the United States of America,
there's not really a lot stopping you
and there shouldn't be a lot stopping
you. I generally don't know why people
would hate the United States of America,
but you still have a right to hate it if
you want to. You have a right to think
really most of everything that you want
to think in this country whether it
seems publicly correct or not. And
that's something that you can't really
sit there and retaliate on the press for
is by saying we're going to deny them
the the freedoms of the press because we
don't like their opinions or takes on
things. You can't really take that sort
of a path or a route because that's a
very slippery slope. Um, and
>> indeed, and also by the way, also by the
way, I see some people in here saying,
uh, well, you know, they were in there
leaking information. And also, uh, I see
some people trying to explain why the
government was trying to have these
journalists sign a document saying that
they agreed not to disseminate this
information. The reason why they had to
have them sign that is because there is
no law in this country which compels
journalists to expose their sources. Uh
there's things like journalistic
privilege. The journalists do not have
to expose their source. That is
something that's been established in
this country for a very long time. And
that's part of the reason why they were
trying to get these journalists to sign
that document because there is no law
that requires them to disclose that. So
that document was going to be the
workaround. If if these journalists
signed that document, they would be
binding themselves to adhere to the
rules that the DoD came up with on their
own accord. So to me, that was a huge
red flag. It's like why why do they need
to sign a separate document if it's if
it's already like uh enshrined in law?
That's because it's not it's not
enshrined in law. So that's a huge
problem to me. They should not have been
asked in the first place to sign a
document like that because if they want
to change it that needs to be done
through a legal means like for through
the legislature. They can add a law if
they want to to change that. But for the
DoD to go out on their own accord and
start trying to ask journalists to sign
something that's wild like on its face.
And also it's wild what was even in the
document. I mean, that's even more wild.
>> Also, I I see some people continuously
trying to make defenses for this. I
would have to be honest with you all.
This is just really an indefensible move
that's going on right now with this. Uh
like I I like would like to say I could
see where people are coming from. I
really don't. Um because some people are
saying, well, I mean, they were just
really negative about the United States.
Um and and that isn't really an
argument. Like the press the press can
be political if they want to be like
like I don't I don't think people
understand this. The only reason that
here on this channel we are apolitical,
it's because we decided to be. If you
want to be the press and you want to
have a political leaning, you have the
right to do that. There is nothing in
the United States of America that says
codified in law that the press has to be
100% apolitical. Otherwise, they're not
the press. That doesn't exist. If you
want to be far-left leaning, far right
leaning, or anywhere in between like we
are a-political, you have a right as a
press agency to really pick whatever
political affiliation or lack of
political affiliation you so desire. If
there's an audience out there to listen
to your news agency, no matter what your
affiliation is, that's your right. Uh
because because at this point, folks,
with people saying that, oh well, you
know, the problem is them being
political. In the future, the problem
could be that we're apolitical. How
would you like it if the government came
down to us and told us, you know, say
the current president's in charge or it
was the last president Biden. If it was
Biden, you have to say left leaning
points and say they're great or you're
off air. Or with the current president,
you have to say right leaning points and
say they are correct and that this
administration is the greatest or you're
off air. How would you like it if
someone forced that on to us here on
this channel? I don't think that people
ever think about it like that, but the
kinds of things that are affecting other
people right now can affect you in the
future. Uh there's an old poem that
someone actually wrote during the times
of Nazi Germany where they said first
they came after so- and so but I didn't
worry because that wasn't me. Then they
came after these people. I didn't worry
because it wasn't me. Then finally they
came after me and I didn't and I
actually cared for once and then I
looked around for people to care and
nobody else was left but me. That's
generally how these sorts of things go.
You have to always think how in the
world could this come down the pipe to
affect me or to affect all of y'all. A
lot of y'all enjoy this show greatly, so
you should be concerned about this and
care about this a bit because it could
come down the pipe to affect us
ourselves and this channel and all of
y'all who watch every day directly at
some point. And also, what was the what
was the official uh uh narrative that
was coming out of the DoD, Department of
War, whatever you want to call it, what
was the reason or the rationale like in
a simple way they were trying to explain
why people should sign that document? Do
you remember like what the official
narrative was?
>> I don't even really know actually. I I
think the official narrative I'm trying
to I was trying to get verification on
it because I'm trying to remember this
from just uh my own memory which I have
a lot of stuff in my head right now
about the whole news situation. I think
the narrative was from the Pentagon that
they were trying to stop classified
information from leaking out. But the
problem is disseminating classified
information is a crime and even
journalists they're not exempt from
that. So a journalist and they have done
it in the past journalists have uh
disseminated classified information.
They are not immune from prosecution by
the way. They're taking a very big legal
risk by doing that. Generally speaking,
the courts in the United States have not
really prosecuted people or the
prosecution has not really gone after
people for that. That journalist that
is, they usually go after the leaker. Uh
that's typically the way it's been done.
The government will go after and
prosecute the leaker of the document,
but they won't go after the journalist
that disseminated the information. But
there's technically no law protecting
the journalist in that uh situation. The
journalists can be subject to
prosecution. So, if the DoD was so
worried about these journalists getting
their hands on classified information,
all they would have to do is simply
prosecute the journalists. It would
really harm national security that bad.
Uh, and that's a crime. So, you know,
that's a thing. Also, by the way, I just
want to add this in as well. Um, there's
some officials out there in our
government that got caught sending
classified information on the wrong
medium. Uh, which is obviously also uh a
little bit sketchy. I'm not going to go
any further than that, but it's a little
bit sketchy to be doing that on
unauthorized platforms and that was a
whole scandal with that. So, um, loosely
loose lips do sink ships, but at the
same time though, we can't sacrifice our
constitutional rights because the
government isn't competent enough to
handle its own classified information.
They need to tighten the belt and get a
grip.
>> Uh, also, one last thing I saw someone
say, um, let's see here. Um, I 100%
agree with freedom of the press, but
highly disagree with putting American
lives at risk just to be the first to
put out a story without thinking about
who it affects. In that sort of a
situation, it's not the press that is
putting people's lives in jeopardy. It's
the stupid idiot in the Department of
Defense that spread that classified
information to the press for it to be
disseminated to the public. That's who
it's who is at fault. That's like
saying, "Man, it's a damn like like you
know, we need to outlaw fancy cars in
this country like Lamborghinis and
Ferraris because the carjackings are
going through the roof because everyone
keeps stealing these fancy cars. We need
to take the people who own these sports
cars and put them in prison because
they're clearly the people who were at
fault for all the carjackings because
they got nice cars people want to
steal." Like that's that's the kind of
logic that was being used here against
the press, which makes no sense. It's
like, shouldn't we be blaming the
carjacker for stealing the car rather
than the person who owns the car? That's
the same sort of a thing here. It's not
the press's fault that they are the ones
disseminating information they're not
supposed to have. The fault lies on the
person who had that information that was
not supposed to disclose that to the
press that disclosed that to the press.
That's on them, not really on the press.
Uh and I think that's what a lot of
people are misunderstanding here with
this whole deal. That's where the issue
lies is with the leakers, not the people
who are just uh spreading the news of
this leak.
>> I would say so. And also, by the way, I
was trying to do some quick uh legal
research. Also, someone said, "Oh, so
you're a lawyer?" No. Um, no, I'm not a
lawyer, but also at the same time, I
have enough sense to be able to read and
figure out what this means. And also, I
did go through a year of law school, so
I'm not totally ignorant on the topic,
but I'm not an expert either. But I was
reading here, and it looks like
generally I'm speaking about the whole
situation with leakers uh sharing
classified information with journalists.
It looks like generally speaking, the
court tries to use this basic standard
here to determine whether or not uh
publica publicizing this information
opposes a clear and present danger to
national security. That appears to be
the standard uh right there is whether
or not it opposes a clear and present
danger. So, it's it's a little sketchy.
Like honestly, if I was a journalist and
someone brought me classified
information, I would I would not mess
with that personally. I would not mess
with it. Um, but some journalists out
there apparently think that's okay to
mess with that. That's a that's a
decision on them. I I'm not involved
with that. So, that's a decision on
them. But they can get prosecuted.
That's the bottom line. And the
government chose to do it because it
harmmed national security enough. They
would apparently be within their rights,
according to what I'm reading, uh, to
prosecute the leaker and the journalist.
But so far, that hasn't happened. The
journalists usually usually are not
prosecuted based on what I'm reading.
Frank Frank Lee in the chat said the
press in all caps leaked a landing site
for our troops in Desert Storm. No, the
military officer that told the press
about that landing site is the one who
leaked that. The press didn't. People
have got to get the understanding
around. And I got to say this as well. I
think that this is a little bit of a
detriment that's happened in the modern
day. People in the military that are
currently in serving are not infallible
and they do cause errors and they do
air. And whenever there is a leak of
military information to the press, it's
not like the press is the freaking KGB
and they've broken into the Pentagon and
they're going through banker boxes of
info to find information they're not
allowed to get. Someone from the
military called the guy up on a phone
and said, "Hey, I want to tell you
something cool. Here it is." and then
they tell the guy the press guy, the the
the press editor, whoever it is that got
that information, they might not even
know it's classified and then they just
put it out. So, it's not even the
press's fault that they're getting that
information. It's whoever is in the
military that gave them the information
that's at fault. Like, I just I don't
know why people don't understand that.
um it's it's more so on the fault of the
officer or the or the uh serving member
of the military that shared that
classified information rather than it is
a private citizen who happened to just
get the classified information. Um, like
you know what's also, you know what's
also interesting is this as well.
Sometimes in the past, usually when
people leak information that's
classified, it's usually because the
officer or whoever it was felt that they
were violating the law and that's why
they therefore leaked that information
that they were not allowed to uh release
to the public or release to the
journalist. Usually, it's because the
person feels like they were violating
the law. And in the United States, it is
illegal to classify something for the
purpose of concealing a crime. That's
illegal. So if a federal agency does
something that's criminal and then they
say, "Okay, we're going to classify that
because we don't want the public
learning about it and it was illegal.
We'll just classify it. We'll brush
under the rug." That is totally illegal.
You can't you cannot classify something
for that reason. So, if someone then
went to the media or went to a
journalist under that premise, uh, at
least in my opinion, and I'm not a
lawyer, I don't think that person would
be guilty of that because it's
technically not appropriate to classify
something that is concealing a crime.
But once again, I'm not a lawyer. You'd
have to obviously look deeper into that.
And courts might disagree with that.
There's no telling. Uh, but that's a
that's a whole thing as well.
Yeah, I would have to say um that it's a
it's a for fairly interesting sort of a
thing. And if you agree, if you disagree
with us, you disagree, and that's fine.
One day they'll come for this channel
and you won't even have a live chat to
be in uh to tell us that you disagree
with us, that's totally fine. Um, but if
you do understand what's going on with
that, that's not really a good move.
Also, Matthew, do we have any real copy
of the loyalty pledge? Uh, so that we
could just show people what exactly it
was. Let me see if I can get it. I want
to make sure it's the real deal, too. I
don't want to show one someone's just
like made up or something. Let's see
here. loyalty pledge from the Pentagon.
Let's see here. Did we get a copy of it
here? Let's see the loyalty pledge.
So, let's see here.
I'm not really It's a 17page document
obtained by NPR according to NPR right
here. Let's see here. How come they're
not showing the document? Like, where is
it? Let's see. I can't find the document
right off hand. That's kind of like a
little bit strange. But I have to go see
if I can find it somewhere else, like
the source document. Um, I'll be honest
with you, I never actually saw the
source document. I just heard uh people
paraphrasing pieces of it. And that's
all I ever got. So, I'll have to see if
I can find it. Yeah, I was just looking
for it as well. And all I could find,
man, was every single website on the
internet saying, "We're not signing
that." Like, everyone who was affected
by it, we're not signing that, and
that's the end of it. Uh, undersigned by
every other news organization on the
planet. So, um, little interest. Also,
folks, if you don't know how, like I I
think this is something else that some
people don't understand because like I I
got to be honest with you all. I know
that a lot of political opinions go into
talking about this sort of stuff because
we just know how it is. Like, you know,
when we said in the last administration
in Biden's last year being president,
the economy looks like it's not really
doing too well and it looks like it's
getting worse, which it was, a lot of
people want to say it's never been
better because it just happened to be a
Democrat that was running the country
and they like him. So, you know, the
economyy's never been better, although
it is getting worse now in the present
day because uh Republicans in charge now
the people who are Republicans want to
say everything's justified that the
president's doing he never does anything
wrong and nothing's even questionable.
But when you look at this on the surface
of it, Fox News, which is right leaning
and is heavily favored by the current
administration because that's where most
of them go in the current administration
to talk about anything they're doing is
just the Fox and Fox alone. If they
aren't even willing to sign this loyalty
pledge, it has to be pretty damn bad.
Like, that has to be extremely bad. If
they're uh if they weren't willing to
sign it and they were also willing to
give up their Pentagon press credentials
and just leave the place and not sign
it, that's got to say something.
>> Yeah, I would say so.
>> Yeah. I mean, like, I'm not even getting
political here, but when everyone across
the board doesn't agree to something
like that, that's not really a good
look. Politics or not. Um, but anyways,
with that,
>> Also, by the way, I'm I'm not sure if
this is true. I'll be honest with y'all.
I really can't find the source document
of that thing. I've been looking all
over the place on the internet trying to
find the source document for that
loyalty pledge. Um I see Bobby 43 said
the loyalty pledge is a secret. Uh I'm I
don't know if it's a real secret or not.
I mean it might be because it doesn't
appear that anybody's published the
document itself. Uh which is kind of
strange to me. Usually they provide a
link to the document or they'll show the
document or something. It looks like all
the articles simply paraphrase it and
that's it.
>> Yeah, I I don't really see it out there
either. So, I guess it has to be secret.
And they were also told if this was
disseminated to the public, then you'll
also get in trouble, I'm guessing,
because no one, it doesn't appear that
anyone has a copy of it that I can find
either on the internet. Uh, which is
also quite questionable as well because
shouldn't the public know what's in that
as well? Uh, that's a little bit weird.
But anyways, with that, I hope we
address that somewhat well, at least the
best we could off of our opinion
considering that we're also involved in
news coverage as well. Uh, but with
that, we are on to the next one.
>> Also, by the way, some people are saying
they're joking. I'm I mean I don't know
if it's a joke honestly or not because I
can't find it anywhere. But anyways,
moving on from that, we're going to move
on to our questions. We we got a lot of
good questions right here folks. So,
jumping into our first super chat, the
last segment, this one goes to W subc
who puts in a $50 donation. And thank
you very much, good sir, for that
support. And he said, "Do the rules of
it's okay to um uh to eliminate with
only suspicion uh for foreign terror
groups, does that apply to domestic
groups and protesters suspected of
affiliation?" No, that does not. That is
absolutely does not. Um uh due process
is is in effect in the United States. So
even if someone is a member of a
domestic terror group, they have the
right to due process in the United
States. Look, the problem is though,
down in Venezuela, that's obviously not
the United States. It's in international
waters as where these strikes are being
conducted. And the same rules do not
apply out there. Um, that doesn't mean I
think the government should have a blank
check, but technically it's not the same
thing. But enforcer, what say you?
>> It's a very different thing. Domestic
terrorists are treated totally different
than foreign terrorists that are outside
of the United States jurisdiction.
Foreign terrorists that are outside of
the United States jurisdiction are
generally dealt with with an iron fist
and we usually just obliterate them uh
with some form of a drone strike or some
form of military action. Domestic
terrorists are treated with white
gloves. So we give them the full breath
of the law. We go in and have an
informant go in and listen to them and
see if they're conducting any sort of
illegal crimes and then we, you know,
recoct them or some other some other
action along those lines and we actually
deal with them through a judicial
process. But I do have to point out to
folks that domestic terrorism is a thing
like people like on the on the modern
thing some people go this group is or
isn't and I'm not going to get into the
particular group is or isn't a terrorist
group but having dealt like me
personally and enforcer Matt as well I
think can kind of talk about this having
dealt with some people who are in that
group just by running this channel I can
kind of lean towards the fact that they
do largely fit that category. of being a
terrorist group because we were
terrorized for about a year and a half
straight by one of those people along
with all their followers here on
YouTube. So, I would not actually say
that that was that far off from deeming
them a group like that because they they
went to the absolute extreme lengths of
terrorism to the point of trying to
destroy our lives through multiple
different ways and means just because
for some reason this guy just happened
not to like us for whatever reason. Um,
and so like
>> a domestic a domestic terror uh
designation that's something that's a uh
that's a government um designation.
That's something that they put on
people. So unless the government
designates them that then they're not
considered that. It's not something
that's really subjective.
>> H interesting. So uh what are you trying
to say about that particular instance?
>> So so basically unless the government
has that group on a list then that group
is not a domestic terror organization.
It has to be on the government's list.
Um that's not that's not a loose term.
That's a legal term actually.
>> Uh so I would have to say just to saying
it outright, isn't Antifa declared a
terrorist group at this point? A
domestic one?
>> Uh I believe according to what I know, I
think the last time uh I checked, I
think they were recently declared a
terror organization, a domestic terror
organization. But um I can't tell you
that for certain, but I believe it is
the case. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Well, then that means that uh at
least from what I would know, if I'm not
mistaken, the guy we're talking about in
particular, who I believe is a member of
that group um would kind of fall under
that criteria if I'm not mistaken. Is
that correct?
>> I'm not sure if he is or not, to be
honest with you.
>> I we'll have to we'll have to look into
that one a little bit more, but
generally I would say that's not that
far off. Um at least with the
designation that's been made recently,
because if you if like I I'll be honest
with you'all. If you'll think about it,
any group at all that's on any fringe
end like like here's how I look at it,
folks. Like Antifa, the Proud Boys, so
on and so forth, people like that on the
extreme fringes, they're not good
groups. Um like generally speaking, uh
they usually they usually team together,
not for good means. It's not to just
push forward some sort of a political
ideology. It's really more so to push
forward some sort of uh you know, get
through you want through fear sort of a
deal. And I haven't really seen any of
those groups operate that much
differently off of that regard. That's
usually why I don't cons and also on top
of that folks, these people aren't
exactly like, you know, down like just
slightly off to the left or left or the
right. All these groups are off to the
far left or the far right and they go
straight into radicalism. I mean,
there's really not even an argument to
be had there. Um, and so that's that
would be my two cents on it. And also,
even still, they get treated
differently. Like hell, you can you can
look at all all of the terrorist groups
that have exist, domestic ones at least,
that have existed in prior decades. The
best ones the best examples I could come
up with would be the Black Panther Party
for one that lean towards the far left
and the KKK for one that leaned towards
the far far right. They always get white
glove treatment by the government. They
have to bring in informants. They have
to gather information. They have to make
sure that they're suspected of
committing some form of a crime or
trying to conduct some forms of domestic
terrorism. And then they get caught. uh
most likely about to conduct that crime
or they conducted the crime and they get
caught and then they're held accountable
by the laws of the United States. You're
never going to see a domestic terrorist
group get drone strike. That's never
going to happen. So, it's a totally
different level of treatment that
domestic terrorist groups get over
foreign domestic terrorist groups. Uh
well, not foreign domestic, but foreign
terrorist groups. So, I hope that does
address that the best I can. A big
thanks to you so much once again for
support and helping this channel to keep
on running because if it wasn't for
folks like you, we wouldn't be able to
make this channel possible. And I hope
that it addresses the question the best
we can because by the law they, you
know, nothing crazy like a drone
strike's ever going to happen on a
domestic terrorist group or anything
along those lines. Uh but anyways, with
that, we are on to the next one. Let's
see here. I was just checking uh the
FBI's website because I was curious if
they have a definition. Uh they they
have a definition on their site here. Um
a definition of domestic terrorism. They
say violent criminal acts committed by
individuals and/or groups to further
ideological goals stemming from domestic
influences such as those of a political,
religious, social, racial, or
environmental nature. Um, that's quite
interesting. I'm not sure if that's a
legal definition or that's just the FBI
subjective definition, but um
interesting criminal acts. Honestly,
that sounds like um sounds like
organized crime, honestly. Like it
sounds like something you'd prose
prosecute under the RICO act. Yeah,
that's what
>> or something like that. Yeah. So, that's
kind of interesting there. I don't know
how they distinguish it from simple
organized crime. It's like they're
making a different designation for
domestic terrorism, but it just sounds
like organized crime. So, let's see
here. Uh I'm trying to find some more
information here about it. So, that's
the only definition they have on their
site. So, uh honestly, that's a pretty
wide ranging uh definition there. I
mean, a a lot of groups could qualify
for that uh under that loose definition.
So, that's that's quite interesting
there. Uh, also also I saw someone say
uh something uh what terrorism has
Antifa done? I mean hell if you really
want to get into it like you know like
any other domestic terrorist group.
There's a great deal um like every like
whenever you whenever you see these
groups because some people think oh you
know this is like a little brawl
whenever you see a group like that go
out with all their imagery and symbolism
clearly showing they're a part of Antifa
and then they get involved in any sort
of a physical alter altercation with
another group whether they're
counterprotesting or not that is
unlawful like any sort of physical
violence like assault and battery that
is an unlawful act and especially
leveraged in mass to try and break up
another protest or a public assembly
through unpieceable means. You can
largely start to say if that if that's
what that group does all the time, that
is largely getting into the realm of
domestic terrorism, using threats of
harm or actual implementations of harm
to try and scare people into stating
their political opinions. Th those sorts
of things do get in that line. Like for
example, the other domestic terrorist
groups, this one, this one is definitely
one of the best ones I can say because
in the south there's a load of history
of them. The KKK went around during the
1960s in the civil rights movement and
was bombing buses, executing people on
the side of the street that were part of
the civil rights movement and so on and
so forth. And clearly that is domestic
terrorism by every single measure. It
meets every single requirement for it.
That's why they are that labeled that to
this day. Um, and that's also why their
membership dropped off massively is
because after they were declared a
domestic terrorist group, no one wanted
to touch them. even the people who were
a part of the clan didn't want to be a
part of it any longer because they
didn't want to be designated domestic
terrorist. Same thing with the Black
Panther Party which also did very
similar actions to that uh bombings and
such. Uh and even at one point uh the
Black Panther Party actually took over
the uh state of California's capital
building and held it for about several
weeks uh in the 1980s. It was very early
80s which is actually one of the reasons
for the National Firearms Act of 1985.
If y'all don't know, it was actually
heavily brought up in the debates in
Congress to pass that act. On top of
that, another thing um at least as far
as uh one more thing that I could bring
up that Antifa did that definitely is
very questionable to the point it is
getting towards insurrection when they
created the Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone
or CHAZA or CHOP or whatever it was
called that technically, if you want to
look at that by the letter of the law
was an insurrection because they
completely stopped any form of law
enforcement or public civil services
from operating within that area. It
literally operated for the time it
existed outside of the control of the
state government of the state of
Washington or the federal government for
that matter. So it may as well have been
an insurrection at that point. Um so you
know here's here's my question and once
again folks I'm not trying to get
political with this. I generally am
trying to understand because I am
familiar with these groups that cause
trouble across America but I don't know
a lot about them enough to say that I
know uh intimately what these groups are
about. But specifically this Antifa
group or Antifa, whatever it's called,
um I see here in the executive order uh
from the White House, they describe
Antifa as a militarist anarchist
enterprise that explicitly calls for the
overthrow of the United States
government, law enforcement authorities,
and our system of law. Um so they're
saying it's an enterprise kind of kind
of saying that it's a criminal
organization. So uh what is the
structure? Because typically when the
government has gone after, for example,
uh the the Italian mob families, they do
lay out exactly who's at the top, uh
who's the underlings of the boss and
things like that, there's a structure to
it, and they designate who these
individuals are. But I've not yet seen
any type of actual like a leadership
tree that's been created by these
organizations, the law enforcement in
this country, showing who runs this
organization. That's my question. I'm
not saying the group doesn't exist. I'm
simply saying where is where's the
naming of the leaders of this
organization. I haven't seen that
personally. And also, by the way,
domestic terrorism is a felony in
America. I found that actually is a
codified offense. Uh it's a felony
offense under both federal and state
laws. Um so it's it's a serious crime
right there. So I just don't understand
how RICO is different from the crime of
domestic terrorism. It seems almost
identical if they're alleging it's a
criminal enterprise of sorts.
>> That is that is a fairly interesting. It
sounds like they're trying to set it up
for like some sort of a RICO law deal um
in the future. And also I see a lot of
people saying uh Antifa Antifa isn't
centrally organized. From what we
understand, I I think Mandy there was
some sort of an undercover reporter that
actually investigated that and that's
not necessarily the case. There is
actually some loose organization
involved in that group from what we can
tell. Um so you know
>> it would make sense. I mean how how does
a group operate completely
decentralized? That wouldn't make much
sense. So there must be some uh loose
organization of some sort. But the there
has to be like I know some people are
saying it's not. But how are they
operating if they don't have a leader?
Like groups don't operate without
leadership.
Yeah. Like that's I would have to say
that's simply true because what other
group in America folks that's ever been
political? I mean look at them from all
ends. You know let's see you would have
uh the Proud Boys on the right. Uh the
Black Panther Party on the far left back
in the day. the KKK on the far right
back in pretty much through most of
history, even still to this day to some
degree. Um, they all have some form of
organization, you know, they they all
have some leader. They're all
centralized to some degree. Why in the
world would this one be nonentralized to
the point that there is no form of even
loose leadership or centralized
leadership to some degree? That would be
a extreme outlier. There really is no
group that exists like that. How in the
world at that point do they even
organize to show up in mass anywhere to
conduct a counterprotest or a protest in
the first place? Um that would that
would be a little bit odd. Like that
would be quite weird. Like how in the
world do they even get everyone in a
single group considering that they would
be that disorganized?
>> Yeah. I mean I I guess the other
argument some people are making and this
is the last point I make on this and
then we can move on from it. But the
last point I want to make personally was
I see some people saying that people
simply show up to these uh protests and
then they choose to identify as a member
of that group that by just holding a
sign saying they are in the group but
the problem is though uh I mean that
works to a certain degree that
explanation does but also someone had to
create the signs that they're holding
that says that they are a member of that
group who did that. Uh, also someone had
to let them know that they were going to
be there on that day and they had to
show up on that day. So, um, I don't I
don't know enough about it to say for a
fact how it works. I don't really know
anything about the group to be honest
with you. I I've just heard it name
thrown around out there and that's about
it. So, the only thing I'm concerned
about is this. Uh, I just want to make
sure that the First Amendment is not
infringed upon. Uh, and whatever the
case is, people have a right to protest,
but they don't have a right to commit
crimes. If you're committing crimes,
then you should be arrested. That's the
bottom line. But people do have a right
to protest. So that that's where I stand
on it. I don't really know enough about
this Antifa group to even comment on it
really. I'm just sort of doing a quick
research on it. Uh and also one more
thing I want to say folks, not trying to
get political here. Um you know, with
this conversation that we've been
having, but I'm not really a big fan of
any extremist group, and a lot of people
go, "Well, they're anti-fascist. Isn't
that good?" Well, I mean, they're
anti-fascist, sure, but they're
practically communist at the same time.
I mean, that's like one of the big
things about their group historically.
Like for example in Britain um when they
went up against Oswel Mosley and his
fascist party in Britain, they were
pretty much on the same token advocating
for communism, another extremely bad
form of extremism. So it's like so it's
like if if you are if you are a
genocidal maniac, but you happen to
oppose the different faction of
genocidal maniacs, are you really any
better than them or are you just a
different flavor of genocidal maniac?
And I'd have to go with the latter
rather than the former. I mean neither
group is incredibly good. like you know
like like I don't I don't sit here and
go well I mean you know like if you look
like no like they're both in incredibly
bad groups and on top of that if you
look at most of their normal operations
there's always some form of intimidation
or threat of harm to anyone they
disagree with anywhere whether it's that
group or any other of these groups that
we've mentioned they always work off of
that is not at all an American sort of
an idea and it does not promote uh
public political discourse in any sort
of a way um so you know that's that's
what my honest truth would have to be on
that and of and you know so before
people go and sit there and go wait a
minute if you're not anti-fascist and
you don't agree with them then you're
obviously a fascist. No, I just don't
really like extremists in general and
they're extremists and I'm not really a
big fan of them either. Um but anyways
with that I hope that does address the
best cannon before anyone says that the
US Army because I saw this brought up a
couple of times that the US Army was
Antifa in World War II. No they weren't.
We were fighting a fascist-led Nazi
German government. But that does not
mean that we all joined the in America
the political organization Antifa. That
did not happen. Antifa Antifa has
existed for an incredibly long time.
It's existed since the 1920s and 30s and
it ex it began in VHimar Germany as a
counter to the Nazis um and their
fascist movements. They've been around
for a while and they would had no
involvement or really any dealings in
the US government or really any allied
government during that period and
usually were still looked at by everyone
as a fringe group of extremist violent
communists. And that's also why
generally a decent amount of those
people ended up going in front of the
House on Americans activities committee
after the war in the 50s during the
McCarthyism era because a lot of them
pretty much leaned straight into
communism as a result of their
anti-fascism. So, they just rejected one
extreme and hopped straight into the pot
with another one and boiled with them.
Um, so really no difference between the
two groups from what I'd say. Uh, both
of them are uh nuts. But anyways, with
that, we are on to the next one. All
right, so our next super chat here goes
to Bobby43 and he puts in a $50 donation
and thank you very much, Bobby, also
known as LC39A for that $50 support and
we do appreciate that. Very generous
support. He said, "I said it is a joke
and it seems to be true. Lol." Honestly,
Bobby, I can't tell uh what the deal is
with it. I know you said it as a joke,
but it might actually be at least
somewhat close to the truth because I'm
not sure why the media has not published
that pledge uh for the people to read.
If it's out there, I can't find it
really easily and it must be buried deep
in the interweb. So, I I don't know to
be honest with you. It's a little bit
interesting, but Enforcer, what say you?
And I'd have to thank you massively for
the support, Bobby 43. I think that your
joke actually ended up might possibly
being true because I couldn't find it
either and I still was trying to look
for it a second ago and I still could
not find the thing. So, I think you
might actually be right on that. But a
huge thanks to you so much once again. I
hope that does address that well and a
massive thanks to you so much once again
for helping this channel to keep on
running because if it wasn't for folks
like you, we would never been able to
make this channel possible and we
wouldn't be able to make it possible to
this day. And so with that, we are on to
the next one. And our next one goes to
chicken fired Jenna Tolls with some
fixings. Thank you very much for that
support by the way. They put in a $20
donation. Chicken fried or chicken
fired. That's very interesting. Adding a
lot of adjectives to the front of it.
And he said take one from the chat. And
we shall grab one from the chat. Thank
you very much Jenna with the chicken
fried for that support. And we do have
the live chat which goes to none other
than Activista who said since we are
conducting operations in Venezuela are
the boat terrorists now considered enemy
combatants to a degree we're considering
them as enemy combatants at this point
from what I understand that seems to be
the uh Department of Defense's
standpoint on the situation right now is
that they are armed combatants and
that's also why we're dealing with them
the way we are. So I do thank you
massively for the support and I hope
that does address that well at least the
best we can. And with that, we are going
to be moving on to the next. Also, by
the way, really quickly, got to bring
this up. Got to bring it up. Um, just
really quickly pulled up the Wikipedia
on Antifa because some people said,
"Wait a minute be why aren't you
anti-fascist?" Because if you're a part
of Antifa, you end up being an
anarchist, a communist, and a socialist.
So, obviously, in my attempt to be
against fascism, I'm not going to jump
into the other genocidal maniac team of
communists and socialists. seems to be
counter uh counterproductive to the
whole idea of this being America.
America isn't communist. It's not
socialist. It's not fascist. We're
Americans. We operate on a
constitutional republic democratic
system with a uh capitalist economy.
That's what I stand for. And so Antifa
is not for me and neither are all the
other crazy fascist groups that Antifa
goes up against. Both of them are nuts
and I'm not for either one of them. So
that's clearly why I'm never going to
say Antifa has a point because their
argument against fascism is the next
insane group which is communism. So
there's your two cents on my opinion
about that group. Anyways, with that we
are on to the next one.
>> And our next one goes to Alex K and Alex
puts in a 20 and says for the P8
Poseidon fund and I thank you so much
for the support and everyone always
needs a P8 Poseidon. We always need to
the Leaf Spring Army has to conduct
anti-ubmarine warfare against the
Russians. It's what we have to do. And I
thank you for supporting the PA Poseidon
Fund because the US Navy needs another
one. In fact, they need about 20 more.
And maybe one day at the Lee Spring Army
can lobby for the Navy to get another 20
PA Poseidons. What could hurt to have
one more? And so with that, a huge
thanks to you so much once again for
support and helping this channel to keep
on running. I hope that does address
that incredibly well, at least the best
we can. And with that, we are on to the
next one. And our next one goes to Old
Warrior. And Old Warrior puts in a 20.
And thank you very much, good sir, Old
Warrior, for being a longtime channel
legend and supporting the channel yet
again. He said, "I just watched a great
vid about a not so great locomotive, the
Soviet AA20, and are you familiar with
it? It was a 414 config, and it was so
long that they had to make the main
drive wheels flangless."
>> Yes, I do know about it. It is a
terrible engine. It's terrible. I hate
it. every I honestly hate uh everything
about Soviet railroads in Russian
railroads. They're terrible. Even today,
they're terrible. Uh but this was the
worst idea they ever had. They made one
of them and they scrapped it right
afterwards because it failed in every
way. It was too heavy. It would rip the
tracks apart everywhere it went. If
there was a turn, pray to God it does
not derail. Uh all of the middle driving
axles are flangless, so that also led to
increased derailments. Uh, the boiler
was hu Well, the firebox specifically
was freaking massive because if y'all
don't know, Russian coal sucks really
badly and it's really bad for heat
content. So, you have to put a load of
it into a boiler to get any sort of
actual heat. Uh so this thing only
operated at slow speeds because they
were not able to get enough heat to boil
the water at a large enough uh rate I
guess you could say to actually get
enough steam to run this thing at high
speeds. So I think the fastest this
thing would normally run was like 15 to
18 miles an hour which is insanely slow
for most everything. In America during
that same period, the common sort of
freight speed, and this is low-speed
freight, was around 40 to 45 miles an
hour. Um, usually high-speed freights
could get all the way up to 70, which is
incredibly fast. That's still what we do
nowadays in this country. This thing is
terrible. It sucked so much. It they
they abandoned it, scrapped it and all
that, but it's it's a terrible engine. I
wish I could go over all the details. I
don't remember them by heart. I just
remember that this thing is the worst.
It was designed in the Stalin era.
That's also why it was the worst. But it
wasn't the only thing that they did in
the Soviet era that was stupid. They
also had this plane that was made around
the same time called the TB3, which was
designed as an aircraft carrier of the
of the Soviet Air Force. So it would
carry a couple of chikas under the
wings. Uh, and they would drop them off
in the middle of the skies like an
aircraft carrier to extend the range of
their aircraft. So kind of like a
Ukrainian Baba Yaga these days almost,
but in the Soviet form. And these things
were obviously obsolete by the beginning
of World War II. and were hardly ever
used. You can also see one here modeled
by uh a by Zvezda or Zveno, which is a
model company. Uh also carrying the
additional two aircraft that it could
carry as well. This rarely ever worked
in real life. Surprise, surprise. But
anyways, a huge thanks to you so much
for the support and helping this channel
to keep on running and I hope that does
address it the best we can. Um and I
hope that was an interesting little bit
of a side note about the AA20, which was
absolutely terrible in my opinion. And I
think it is another godless design of
the Soviet Union. But a huge thanks to
you once again and we are on to the next
one.
>> All right, so our next super chat is
going to go to John King and John put in
a 20 and thank you very much John for
that support as well. He said, "How will
Ukraine launch Tomahawk missiles? The US
doesn't have many available."
>> We might make them a specialized ground
launch platform or they might make their
own. That's generally what we're
assuming at the moment right now. Um,
but at the moment, we do not know of
any, uh, means or abilities that the
Ukrainians would have to actually launch
them themselves. So, uh, I hope that has
addressed it the best I can. A big
thanks to you once again for support and
help this channel to keep rolling. And
with that, we are on to the next one.
>> And this one goes to Dave W. And thank
you very much, Dave, for that $20
support as well. He said, "Has there
been increased activity at Camp Leun or
Fort Bragg where the airborne troops are
based?" Uh generally we don't talk about
uh domestic military movements for
operational security purposes. That's
where we actually draw the line. So
unfortunately I cannot really speak to
that whether we would know or not know
about any US military movements at
either of those facilities. Uh but Fort
Bragg is uh quite an interesting place.
Everyone always talks about Fort Bragg,
not in good ways. Uh everyone always
usually has very bad stuff to say about
Fort Bragg, but here it is right here.
It's right outside of the city of
Fagatville. Right up here. This is where
a lot of the US airborne or the US Army
airborne forces are based out of like
the 82nd and others. So pretty cool. Um
although the 82nd actually did a
rotation over to Romania a while ago. It
was like a year ago. Um I think they're
back here at the moment. But we cannot
really speak about those sorts of
movements because those actually would
be operational security u issues. And
while we don't have to really ensure
operational security of the US military,
we still like to operate with some
goodwill towards them considering that I
have a lot of friends who are in the
military and I don't want to, you know,
possibly put them in harm's way by
giving out too much information. But
still, a big thanks to you so much once
again for support. I hope that does
address that well. And with that, we are
on to the next one. And our next one
goes to Ride Ride 34 Life three who puts
it up 20. And thank you very much, good
sir, for that support. formerly known as
Charg he says and it's good to see Charg
and he's changed his name. He said keep
up the good work boys and here's a
little something uh to keep the heat on
as winter is just around the corner and
LLT LLC. Thank you so much for
supporting helping us to keep the cold
burden and the lights on. Yeah, help us
to stay warm in the winters and the
winters I've heard are going to be
brutal brutal I tell you out in Salt
Lake City. I've heard that it gets cold
here and that it snows. And me as a
southern boy, I don't know a damn thing
about snow. I've actually heard of that
at some point. And I thought it was that
stuff that comes on them damn boats off
of the Gulf up here in the Alabama that
people snort. I don't know what snow is
really. I don't know a damn thing about
it. They say it's this stuff that covers
the ground and it's made of ice, like
shaved ice you get out of a cup at a
snow cone store. And I've never heard of
nothing like that in my life. And then I
got to tell you something, folks. I just
saw I just saw a mountain that's named
after uh after uh Lex Luthor. They
called it White Baldi. Look at that
right there. Named after Lex Luthor.
Crazy right there. Crazy. Uh but beyond
that, snow scares me. I don't know what
the hell that is. And I hope I
don't die if it falls on top of me. Um
but beyond that, I'm just kidding,
folks. We've added snow here a couple of
times, very rarely, and it's usually
less than an inch thick whenever it
falls. Um, but I'll be honest with
y'all, that is one thing I'm kind of
getting a little bit concerned about
now. I don't know a damn thing about
snow really in large amounts. And I'm
and now Matthew me talking about it's
like how much does it snow out in Salt
Lake? And that's something we're going
to have to find out. But still, a huge
thanks to you so much once again for
support. I hope that does address that
the best we possibly can. And with that,
folks, it's time for us to move on into
the next one. All right. And our next
one goes to John Murray who puts in a
20. And thank you very much, John, for
that support as well. He said, "Do
people not realize how war works?" Um,
and some don't, but he said, "It's
messy. It's imperfect. We don't line up
across from each other in a field and
look at each other in the eye and and do
the do anymore." Um, P isn't always
guaranteed. And P, what does he mean by
that? P. Tell me, enforcer,
>> that stands for positive identification,
which means that the person that you
were about to target and shoot has been
100% confirmed as an enemy armed
combatant.
>> Well, if I do recall properly, one of
the main things in the Middle East when
the US was over there and really
fighting hard and slogging it out inside
of Afghanistan was they were very strict
about the rules of engagement and
positive identification. So, I don't
know. Like, I I think I think generally
speaking that we should be very very
keen to have positive identification
because you don't want to be willy-nilly
because I know people these days have
generally gotten uh let's see,
desensitized to the whole thing of war,
but we don't want to get to the point
where we're operating like Russia. We
want to make sure that we still have our
morals intact and also still have some
sense of um civility uh even in war uh
because we want to be different than the
enemy otherwise what are we fighting
for? But enforcer, what say you?
>> I would have to say that I would um
agree that war is a nasty business. Uh
that that's something that a lot of
people don't really know is that no
matter how much we try to clean up uh
the whole side of, you know, don't kill
the civilians, you know, don't have
collateral. There will always be
collateral. And that's usually why we
want to avoid war. It's always going to
be a nasty business. And when you really
like beyond us cheerleading the
Ukrainians uh in the war in Ukraine,
which we've been doing for a long time,
and beyond us just trying to keep up a
light and cheery tone on air about the
whole thing, so that way everyone
doesn't get emotionally overloaded by
the whole deal. War is actually quite a
nasty business. We see it firsthand
every day before we come on air making
this news. Um, and there are people who
get Gordon killed that weren't even
supposed to be Gordon killed in the
worst ways. And the people who were in
the military get Gordon killed in the
worst ways. War is a horrendous thing.
And I would have to agree with you on
that. However, we should always be
trying to work as hard as we can to make
war as civil as it can be. I mean, you
know, like a lot of people here in the
West nowadays don't really get this, but
we're not animals. You know, we're not
we're not cavemen of, you know, 40,000
BC killing each other with uh with, you
know, spears made out of rocks. I mean,
we live in civilized societies these
days, and we have a much greater uh uh
aptitude of knowledge and reason than a
lot of people before us have ever had
because they just didn't have the
accumulated knowledge and learning or
experience to learn available to be able
to be who we are today. And for that
reason, I think that we should use our
civilized natures as a civilized nation
to ensure that whenever we wage war, we
are conducting it in the most civilized
manner possible. Even if it means that
we sometimes have to tie our hand behind
our back here and there a little bit to
do it. I still think that that's
something that we should try and do. And
I know that someone's about to say,
well, when you're under fire, and I know
it's a totally different equation when
you're under fire, but at the same time,
my counter to that statement is, well,
if you're as good a soldier as you say
you are, being under fire should
certainly be stressful. I would say, but
at the same time, we should be
professional enough to not end up
causing significant collateral as well.
Um, but anyways, with that, I hope that
does address that the best I can, at
least in my opinion. Um, because and
also folks, I've got to say this as
well. Everyone wants to always say, oh,
everyone always wants to butt that, go,
oh, you know what the hell with it?
Level it. What if you were the person
who was in that town and the role was
reversed and that was an enemy army and
they were about to say, level all of you
and lay you to waste. Would you want
them to say that or would you want them
to also treat you with white gloves?
Always think about it in the reverse.
Think of it like honestly the best way I
can think of saying it, think of it as
that Twilight Zone episode from the
original Twilight Zone where the
Japanese soldiers were holed up in that
cave at the end of the war and the
American officer said, "Let's just
grease them and, you know, bring up a
flamethrower and get that whole thing
over with." Uh, and then it flipped to
where he was a Japanese officer in the
Japanese army at the beginning of World
War II and it was a bunch of Americans
in that same cave and then he was having
a debate about whether or not to go
along with his superior Japanese officer
and just grease those guys inside the
cave or not. Always think about it like
that. You always want to have enough
civility that if the roles were
reversed, you would go, I would hope
they would do the same thing to me that
I do unto them. That's really the truth
of it. Uh, but anyways, even if they're
not doing that, you still want to act on
that sort of a level. But anyways, I
hope that does address that the best I
can, at least in my personal opinion.
Uh, but a huge thanks to you once again
for support and helping this channel to
keep running. But I definitely do see
where you're coming from. But that would
be my counter. But a huge thanks once
again. And we are on to the next one.
And our next one here goes to Margaret
Hemsley who puts in a 31 Australian. And
thank you very much, Margaret, for that
support by the way. And we do appreciate
that very, very much all the way from
Australia. And Margaret said, "Finally
have money to send. And if lives are
lost by Russia and NATO countries, is
that a last straw for Article 5 to be
invoked? And what else would it take?
>> I if that didn't work, I don't know what
else would work. Like if if that didn't
force us into an article 5 invocation,
nothing would at that point. Um so I
would have to say that probably will be
the straw that breaks the camel back
camel's back because if it wasn't, I
would I would be greatly disappointed in
our leadership across the entire Western
Sphere completely. um to the point that
might actually leave me disillusioned
because if they're not willing to
protect the citizenry of the very
nations that uh they are the elected
representatives of then what are they
even here for at that point. Um so that
I hope that is addressed the best I
possibly can and a huge thanks to you
Margaret Hemsley for being an old garden
of channel legend by the way and also
thank you for supporting the channel. Um
we got to thank you greatly because no
one ever has to support the channel and
yet you always go of your way to support
the channel whenever you can. I got to
thank you massively for that because if
it wasn't for folks like you, we
wouldn't have been able to keep this
channel possible and keep it running for
years. So, a big thanks to you so much
once again. And with that, we are on to
the next one. And this one goes to BC
Skyman, the channel legend, and he puts
in a $20 support. And thank you very
much, BC, for supporting the channel yet
again. I think he's already left the
night actually. He he uh he he we he
left early, I think, for the night if I
can speak. I'm I'm struggling with this
whole thing called English. Uh but thank
you very much, BC, for that support. And
Enforcer, what say you? Uh, and I would
have to say a big thanks to you for the
support, BC Scam, and another old garden
at Channel Legend. And great to have you
here tonight. I hope you I hope you
enjoyed the stream while you're here.
And if you're still here, thank you for
still sticking with us. And I got to
say, it's always great to have you here
with us. And I hope you've been having a
good time recently. So, a huge thanks to
you so much once again. And with that,
um, also, um, someone said, "Believing
that war can ever be in any way
civilized comes from a misunderstanding
of what war is." No. No, it doesn't,
because historically we have made war
more civilized. Do we um let let me let
me ask this in a sense. When the US
Army, which fought in World War II,
liberated towns in France, did we go
through everyone's private belongings
and loot their houses of everything of
value and also take the women and uh
violate them to the most extreme forms
of carnal crimes that could be
conducted? And the answer was usually
no. And whenever something like that did
happen, we would find those men, we
would try them, and we would hang them
um for conducting uh extreme crimes.
That's what we did back in the day.
There was a lot of US soldiers that were
hanged for those crimes during that
time. So no, war has become a lot more
civil because if you look at World War
II and how we acted in World War II as a
democratic nation, a civilized nation
versus say any European nation from the
Middle Ages, we were far more civilized
in how we would liberate or conquer an
area than any medieval army was of a
different era several hundred years
before. And if you look at how the US
army operated inside of Iraq and
Afghanistan and so on, we were even more
civilized than the US military during
the Second World War. So there is always
an ability to become more civilized.
It's just about the enforcement of that
um and the continuence of that
enforcement to ensure that it does not
become a debauchery of barbarism in the
midst of something such as a war that
has to be fought and must be done and
not to turn it into some sort of an
univilized display. Um, but I hope that
does address it the best I can. And with
that, we are on to the next one.
>> All right, so our next one here, we are
jumping into this one, which goes to
Jake Robinson who puts in a 20. And Jake
said, "In coffee funds, Enforcer, Matt,
Enforcer, good evening from Canada and
LLC." Hey, and a good evening to Canada.
I hope y'all are doing good up there.
And I hope y'all are dressing warm
because it it's apparently cold up
there. Um, but I do thank you so much
for the support, enjoying the channel,
and helping it to keep on running and of
course being a part of the LSA Canada
division. So, a huge thanks to you so
much once again. And we are on to the
next one.
>> And we also have a 20 from Military
Cyborg. And thank you, good sir Cyborg
for that $20 support. He said, "Another
night, another donation, another one. I
can't donate 20 billion, but here is
something." And take one from the chat.
# veteran # LSA #Love Ukraine. Thank you
so much for the support and helping this
channel to keep on running. And I got to
say, long live the Lee Spring Army and
the Lee Spring Army will never die. All
right, I got to thank you so much once
again for enjoying the channel and
helping us to keep this thing running
because it is folks like you who have
helped to make this thing possible and
help this thing to keep on rolling. And
so with that, we are on to the next one.
And the live chat question goes to
Marian Demer who said, "How does anyone
know the boats are drug boats and not
high sea fishing boats?" That's the
golden question right now. That is the
golden crust as you could say at this
point. Nobody knows the M O the modus
operandi for the US military right now.
We are we are assuming and hoping that
the US military is doing proper positive
identification and proper rules of
engagement uh to make sure that these
drug boats are in fact um naroterrorist
boats. So right now there's nothing
showing that they have neglected their
duty to do that. But we haven't got in
gotten any uh re reassuring statements
either at least in my opinion. But
enforcer what say you? I would actually
have to agree with enforcer man on that.
We get statements from the government
that these are not fishing boats and
they are narco boats, but they don't
really provide any sort of statements to
the public that would ease any sort of
concerns that it might still be the
alternate answer, which is that they are
fishing boats. So, I'd have to say um
that there definitely needs to be some
sort of proof given for that um as well.
I'd have to agree with that. But I do
thank you for the support and helping
this channel to keep on running. Uh, and
also I
>> Wait, real quick, real real quick. Do
you think I see people mentioning the
outboards? Do you think that the four
like really large outboards is proof
enough that it's a drug boat? Like me
personally, I would say I would say
supporting strong supporting evidence
that it's probably some sort of drug
boat because uh what type of fisherman
needs like a thousand horsepower? Like
what kind of what kind of fish are they
running after? Like freaking like jumbo
tuna or something? thing. I mean, what
are they what are they fishing? Um, I
don't really know why you need outboards
that large.
>> I Well, I say that number of outboards
on a single boat would definitely start
to lead towards the reasonable suspicion
that it is involved in some sort of
narcotics operations and requires the
speed. But at the same time, there has
to be some sort of further proof than
that because let's what if what if it's
just some wildly successful fisherman
and they decided to spend their money on
pimping out their boat so that way they
could take it out for pleasure rides uh
with their friends on the weekend. say,
you know, somehow they actually made it
and they just added a whole bunch of
motors to the boat so that way they
could also use it for leisure when
they're not working as a fisherman. You
know, it's like like, you know, there
could be an argument made that that
might be the case. Uh, and so it's like
we we need to make sure that we don't
just have one supporting piece of
evidence, which is a large amount of
high power outboard motors. We need to
have additional evidence like the uh
clear evidence or visual confirmation of
contraband on board, possibly armed
individuals on board, something along
those lines at least or at least meet
those uh two or three criteria at best
to be able to say we have enough
reasonable suspicion due to the fact
that they're armed, due to the fact that
they're carrying contraband and due to
the fact of the um large amount of
upgrades the vessel has taken to
undertake heavy speeds that due to all
these three factors, we can confirm with
a high amount of certainty that they are
involved in illegal activities and for
that reason we authorize a strike.
>> Yeah, they got to have something. I Me
personally, I prefer they know who's on
the boat. Me personally, like obviously
obviously if you have a boat that looks
like it's like some cheap uh fishing
boat with like four large huge outboard
motors attached, that's already a little
bit uh fishy in itself. Uh, and then
also if you have cargo that's sitting on
the bottom of the of the boat, like the
boat uh hole that looks like bricks of
white substance, that's also a pretty
strong indicator that something's not
right. Um, and also there's no fishing
gear on board. That's another bad sign.
But, um,
>> I don't know. It's it's I have an idea.
What if we issued an edict? uh nothing
nothing that's encoded or codified in
law. But what if the executive off
office issued an edict to be dispensed
throughout the areas of Central and
South America that any vessels that are
operating within the territorial waters
of Venezuela or Colombia or generally
just Venezuela or for that matter in
international waters within the
Caribbean Sea that have any uh number of
outboard motors in excess of two will be
deemed to be involved in narotist
operations and will be dealt with
accordingly. And if one would seek to
not uh you know uh pretty much uh be the
recipient of the IR of the US armed
forces, they will remove any excess of
outboard motors beyond the number of
two. Just issue an edict like that. And
if anyone else has more than four
outboard motors, you can just be
guaranteed at that point. Sure, fire. If
they're not listening to a US edict
telling them, we're going to uh air
strike you if you do not have if you
have more than two outboard motors and
they still have more than two outboard
motors. Clearly, they're not uh
concerned about violating the law or
they're part of some sort of illegal
cartel operation by default at that
point. And then we have the Koreans to
be able to strike them. You could do
just you could do something like that.
>> Yeah, maybe. So, possibly. I just don't
I don't think there's a lot of boat
racing or boat racers that go into
international waters from Venezuela. I
don't think there is such a thing like
that. I see some people saying, "Well,
maybe there's like boat enthusiasts or
something." But the problem is this
though, the these boat enthusiasts that
you're talking about, they're taking
these cheap fishing boats out with like
a $100,000 worth of outboard motors in
the back and they're hauling ass right
through the middle of US Navy vessels.
So, I mean, what normal civilian takes a
risk like that? I mean, that seems like
most people would see the Navy vessels
or know that the Navy vessels are out
there and in the vicinity of Venezuela,
and they would say, "Oh, hell no. I'm
not going out there. I'm not I'm not
tangling up with the US Navy. I'm going
to just like stay within Venezuelan
waters. I'm not going to go out there
and see if I can get messed up by the US
Navy. So, whatever these guys are doing,
they must have some big reward to doing
it. Otherwise, they wouldn't take that
huge risk. But, it would still be nice
though for the military to explain how
they're uh choosing to target these
people instead of just telling us to
trust me, bro. Yeah, I would I would
have to agree. Um and also, I saw
someone earlier in the chat. I gota I
got to address this. This was
interesting. Someone say um someone said
I I won't mention a name on this one but
I will mention what they said. They said
I'm of the same opinion um but what
started the uh actions by Antifa was the
police targeting and killing specific
individuals in America seems
specifically wrong to target these
people out of their way. But what do I
know? But the thing is about that I
don't really understand what you're
getting at there. So you're saying that
one wrong of an officer of a police
officer justifies the wrong of some sort
of a band of people to go around and
pretty much conduct vigilante justice.
Uh which I don't really understand. If
we're talking at that sort of a premise
and this is for any this is this is not
political. This is just my moral take on
that. Let's let's speak about that
particular instance which happened in
St. Paul, Minnesota where a man was
arrested by police and died while in
their custody. this is what you're
generally talking about. I'm not going
to speak of the name or anything because
then everyone's going to get uh you know
pavlovd into giving their political
opinion immediately, but let's just talk
about that specifically. So that w that
was immediately dealt with. It went
national and I believe that most of the
officers involved in that were punished
according to the law uh properly. So the
uh the wrong was immediately rectified
by punishing those who conducted the
wrong. So what would justify Antifa at
that point running rampant around the
country? that wouldn't really make too
much sense to me. It really does.
There's no way to justify that for any
group. You just go through the processes
that we have in this country to hold
people accountable for their
wrongdoings. And that's that. Um, you
know, like that's that's just generally
how that works. Uh, but anyways, with
that, we are on to the next one.
>> All right. So, our next one goes to
Robert Krogan who puts in a 10. And
thank you very much, Robert, for that
$10 support. He said, "Moving day is
coming soon." So, here's a little
something.
>> Hey, and thank you so much for the
support and thank you for helping us out
on the eventual moving day. And so a
humongous thanks to you so much once
again. I hope that has addressed that
well. And with that, we are on to the
next one.
>> Also, man, some of these topics, man,
I'm not going to lie. Like some of these
are inviting like bad politics in the
chat. Like I can't really stop the
politics on those. Like that last topic,
>> man. I I was keeping it as generic as I
could. But still, I was like I was
trying to say two wrongs don't make a
right. basically like just because
something wrong happens in this country
doesn't give everyone uh a blank check
that disagrees with something to go out
and start conducting their own wrong
actions and acts of violence and illegal
activities uh to pretty much say we're
getting even. That's not how it works.
Um, but anyways, with that we are on to
the next one
>> and this one goes to Timothy Benell who
puts in a 10 and Timothy said, "Longtime
listener and first time contributor and
take one from the chat, please." And I
thank you so much for supporting. Thank
you for supporting the the channel for
the first time and helping this thing to
keep on rolling. Uh, and of course, we
will make sure to get one from the live
chat in your honor. So, what do we got,
Matthew?
>> And this live chat question goes to Levi
Stratton who said, "Did you see the
October 15th youth protest in St. heat
Russia. I personally didn't see it. I
heard about it, but I didn't really see
the pictures from it. Seems although it
seems like worldwide, it seems like
generation Z uh is really starting to
get wild. Like I think in Madagascar, by
the way, that coup was actually uh
generally powered by the Gen Z crowd
based on what I've learned so far. So,
it looks like the youth are going
berserk. But in for what say you?
>> I would have to say uh it's a little bit
wild that Gen Z is overthrowing
governments everywhere like in Nepal and
Madagascar. I didn't hear about the one
in St. Petersburg myself. Uh, but it is
a wild sort of a trend that's starting
to pop up these days. I would hope that
that's not a trend that reaches its way
to the United States. Um, but I do thank
you massively for the support and
helping this channel to keep on running.
And with that, we are on to the next
one. And this one goes to Connor
Guardiro and he puts in a 10. And thank
you very much. You got Connor for that
support. He said 60 Minutes talked about
China trying to hack into the Littleton
mass water electrical network back in
2023 and do you believe that China would
do similar hacks as they invade Taiwan
to divert the US? 100% absolutely they
would. Um I'm sure that China probably
is deep into Taiwan's systems. I would
imagine that if the if China is knee
deep in our electrical system and our
electrical grid and also our water
systems and also if y'all haven't heard
this report yet, China is literally
attacking even local water uh outlets
and also electrical stations. They are
literally trying to hack into
everything, not just the big ones, but
also the small ones, too. So, China is
going all out. Like, they're trying to
hack literally anything they get their
hands on. So, I would imagine Taiwan uh
who knows what they've done to Taiwan.
probably a lot. But enforcer, what say
you?
>> I'd have to agree with that. That's
definitely a tactic of the Chinese. In
the modern day, cyber warfare is a
tactic of every single nation on the
planet uh that is advanced to any
degree. If there is a war that breaks
out, they are immediately trying to
attack and take down um the cyber
infrastructure of the country they're at
war with. So, I can guarantee you the
Chinese would do that to Taiwan if they
started to invade. Uh and so, with that,
I hope that does address that the best I
can. And big thanks to you so much once
again for support and helping this
channel to keep on running. And with
that, we are on to the next one.
>> And this one goes to salesmaster metals
who puts in a 10. He said, "Thank you
for bringing light minds together in the
channel and democracy dies in darkness."
>> Hey, and thank you so much for the
support. And I I hope that we speak a
great deal of reason on this channel.
I'm sure a lot of people who listen uh
realize that the reason why we don't
really get heavy into politics is that
we look at things pretty reasonably. And
because of that, we don't really fall
within any political group anyways.
Because to be in a political group these
days, you kind of have to be fairly
unreasonable. Like you just have to view
it very one-sidedly and not really look
at uh everything in in total. Because
over the course of tonight, I think
we've been called fascist and communists
in different moments of the show because
we don't agree with the one side or the
other on one thing or another. And it it
shows through enough because we'll
explain it in our own way with our own
logic. And they don't like that because
it's either you just agree with
everything just cuz even if it doesn't
make any sense or you're obviously the
worst thing alive. So, you know, if
you're a Republican, whoever you
disagree with as a communist and if
you're a liberal, whoever you disagree
was clearly a Nazi or something like
that. So, um I'm glad to know that we
are neutral enough that we end up
getting the eye of both sides pretty
much every single night. And I got to
thank you so much for supporting the
channel and appreciating the fact that
we are that a-political that we pretty
much get uh get uh bad raps on pretty
much every side on the political end.
But still a big thanks to you so much
once again. I hope that does address
that well. And with that we are on to
the next one.
>> And our next one goes to Ryan H. And
Ryan puts in a 10. And thank you very
much Ryan for that support. He said good
evening to the enforcer enforcer Matt
and Turk Menistan rabbit hole please.
>> Oh my god that's a great one actually.
Thank you for the support. When the
Soviet Union collapsed, uh the guy who
was in charge of Turk Menistan just re
retained it as a Soviet Republic and he
renamed the Communist Party of Turk
Menistan to I think it was like the
Democracy Party of Turk Menistan. The
first election they had in the country,
he won it by 99.9%.
The second election they had in the
country, he won it by 99.98%.
Um and then he declared himself
president for life. the next guy who
took charge of the country, who's in
charge of it right now, he was actually
a dentist. So, he had like that Assad
build going on. He was like a dentist
and everything. And then he became the
leader of the country and they have done
absolutely stupid stuff there. For one,
the the current guy, if I'm not
mistaken, he claims he's magic or
something and can do all kinds of
magical feats. Actually, no, that was
the last guy. The last guy was the guy
who was magical. The current guy is
like, I'm not kidding, folks. Best way
to explain Turk Menistan like the
current leader of it. It's like if he
was General Aladine from the movie
Dictator. That is literally who he is
down to the tea like perfectly. There's
no other way to put it. That guy is
General Aladine if he was real. Um he he
goes to sports events, he wins them all.
Like Aadine did like the running tourn
tournament. Matthew, remember where he
had the pistol and anyone was running
faster than him, he just shot him. Kind
of like that. Um, the entire the entire
uh city of Oshkabat is built out of
white marble and none of it has any real
architectural sense. I mean, like look
at it. You can even see from here. It's
like what one what type of design is
this? And it really has no design. Let
me see if I can drop y'all down on a
picture here to show y'all what it kind
of looks like out here. This is what it
looks like. And all of these buildings,
by the way, folks, are clad with real
white marble. Like actual white marble.
It's insane. Every single building in
Ashkabbat is like this. The whole city
is abandoned. Practically nobody lives
here because nobody is within the graces
of the government enough, at least in
large enough numbers to live here. So
most of this was built as a vanity
project. Um because of this
>> Mhm.
>> I was going to say I was going I was
going to bring up another thing, but go
ahead.
>> Um the whole the whole city of Oshkobot
was built as a vanity project, at least
a modern one. And they have absolutely
no freedom of the press. Press is pretty
much removed. I don't think they have
any operational Oh yeah, by the way, I
forgot. The only hospitals that exist in
the country are in Oshkabot because the
last guy who ran Oshkobot just
completely deleted every hospital in the
country and fired all of the staff and
just said if anyone's sick, they can
just come to Ashkabbat and just left it
at that. So there's no hospitals
throughout all of Turk Menistan except
for here in the capital. Um there is no
press. If you say something that the
government doesn't like, the police just
come in the middle of the night like the
KGB would have and just take you away to
a prison camp or execute you. you're
never heard from again. So, nobody knows
if they're dead or alive somewhere. Uh,
it is a it is a pretty wild place. They
actually say that uh that Turk Menistan
is as oppressive and has actually been
argued by some to be even more
oppressive than North Korea, which is a
little bit unbelievable, but they're
pretty close actually. But anyways, what
were you about to bring up? Yeah, if you
if you go to uh Turk Menistan, if if
someone's trying to go to hell, like for
example, if somebody's if somebody wants
to go to hell, you go to Turk Menistan,
they have the door to hell literally in
the country. Uh it's literally built
into the ground, the Darvaza gas crater,
uh which is apparently a result of a
failed Soviet drilling attempt. This is
it right here. This is called the door
to hell. And it's like just a pit in the
ground that has flames that never go
out. So, this thing always burns and
it's just burning uh gas basically
constantly. So, this pit right here is
the door to hell. So, that's a fun fact.
Um, if you want to find it, you just go
there and you see it. But also, by the
way, another thing I've heard as well,
I've heard that there's a rumor that
black cars, like the color black on
cars, is totally banned in Oshkabot
because the president is superstitious,
so you can't even drive a black car. Uh,
also, they've banned a lot of art forms,
too. Uh they banned opera, ballet, and
other arts because they deemed it not to
be compatible. Yeah, they deemed it not
to be compatible with Turkman culture.
So they got rid of all that stuff. So
honestly, it seems like kind of a wacky
country. To be honest with you, I'm not
sure if I'd ever want to see that.
>> It's it's extremely whack. Uh the the
first guy who ran Turkmanistan as their
dictator, he changed the words uh he
changed the word for bread to the name
of his mother because he just wanted
everyone to be reminded of his mother.
He renamed all of the months of the
year. One of the months was named after
his mother. Another one was named after
a dog that he really liked. Um and then
also on top of that, I I if I remember
correctly, the state television network
just talks about how cool they all are.
Um like the leader at least the last one
and the current one. Um I mean it's it's
really insane. Honestly, I'm trying to
think of all the different stuff that
they've done in Turk Menistan that's
just absolutely nuts. Um, you know, they
get the least amount of visitors, the
least amount of tourists to pretty much
any any country on the planet. Um,
that's how little people actually want
to go see this place. Like I I think I'm
not really sure. I don't have the
numbers in front of me, but I think they
get less visitors than North Korea or
it's either on par with North Korea.
It's very low.
>> Yeah. Nobody goes here. Like nobody goes
here ever. And also, I saw one guy, I
think, who accidentally ended up in
Oshkabot because a plane had a technical
fault and it had a detour here, I think.
And it was insane like the treatment
they got immediately off the plane.
Everyone was claimed as soon as they
landed to be foreign spies and they
interrogated everyone from the plane for
like five hours each and then they told
them all you immediately have to get on
a flight and leave here. Um and I was
like this is insane. I've never heard of
this place. And that's what actually got
me interested in Turk Menistan to look
into it. Um, and then there was a whole
Oh, oh, by the way, the first leader of
Turk Menistan, he actually was a little
benevolent in a way in that everyone's
water, gas, and electricity bills in
Turk Menistan were actually free. Like,
they didn't have to pay for any of that
because the Turkman government made so
much money off of the natural gas sales
that they have that he just subsidized
everyone's uh gas, electric, and water
bills in their apartments. the second
guy who's in charge right now, he got
rid of that uh because he uh ended it so
that way he could build up enough money
to just start building everything out of
marble in Oshkabot. So now nobody gets
the subsidized water, electricity, and
gas uh anymore because Ashkabbat's
marble. Um that's literally the reason.
Um let me see if I can show youall some
other crazy stuff here from Oshkobot. Um
like this
this mall
right here. this one. It's a really It's
a really wild place, honestly. Uh, but
anyways, with that, uh, I hope that
addresses that well, at least about Turk
Menistan, and kind of a smaller rabbit
hole. I don't know a great deal about
it, but it's an it's an insane, wacky
sort of place. I just saw someone in the
chat say it's a Mickey Mouse country.
And honestly, I'd agree with you. It's
cartoonish nearly uh, with how goofy it
is. But anyways, with that, we are on to
the next one. And our next one goes to
Kyle Roco who puts in a 10. And thank
you very much, Kyle, for that $10
support. He said, "Can you explain the
difference between communism and fasc
fascism in terms of uh of day-to-day
operation? They seem both very similar
to me and in terms of how they actually
function in the real world." Basically,
I actually I actually studied this uh as
my whole like major in college. Uh to
sum it up in a really simple way,
communism is basically equality through
collectivism. Um that's the simplest way
to put it. And fascism is power through
nationalism. I guess you could best
describe it that way simply, but they're
very different. A fascism is generally
about a cult of personality, for
example, a dictator that generally holds
all the power and the dictator rallies
the country around his ideology. So
that's fascism. Um, communism is more
about the economics. It's more about
being a classless uh stateless society
where all the property and production
are own collectively. that that's uh
opposed to fascism because in fascism um
generally the corporations are in
cahoots uh with the dictator but there's
still private property ownership in f in
fascism unlike communism. So, um, that's
basically it in a nutshell. But,
Enforcer, what say you?
>> If we took the Nazi, Germans, and the
Soviet Union as they existed at the same
time in the 1930s and 40s, the truth is
is that there really wasn't a lot of
difference uh, in living in either one
of those countries on the day-to-day
with how your daily life looked. The
quality of life in Germany, however, was
better than the Soviet Union, but that's
just because historically living in
Russia sucks. Like, there's just really
no other way to put that. But um beyond
that, as far as the day-to-day, it's
about the same. In the Soviet Union, all
enterprises were operated by the state.
Um in Germany, all enterprises had to
answer to the Ministry of Labor, um
which pretty much ran um the entirety of
Germany's state industries as well as
private ones. Private ones generally had
to get deference or some sort of
approval from the Ministry of Labor or I
think it was like the Ministry of Verka.
It was it was a really weird deal. Like
it's a it's their flag. They had their
own flag. It was a swat it was like a
swastika on a cog, but I keep forgetting
the uh exact name of that ministry, but
it's like the ministry of labor. But
they pretty much operated all of the
industries inside of Nazi Germany. And
like a lot of people don't understand
this sort of a deal because everyone
goes, "Oh, well, you know, clearly that
sounds like in Nazi Germany there's at
least some like autonomy to become like
a businessman or something like that."
Pretty much the same thing existed in
the Soviet Union as well because you
could end up becoming a factory manager,
which may as well have been like a
little CEO. You get a lot more pay, you
get better treatment, you live in a
nicer apartment than everyone else for
being a factory manager. So, it might as
well be the same sort of social
structure. Every single one of them had
party control down to the most basic
element in Germany. that the most basic
element of the Nazi party was the block
lighter which is this guy who was like
he's pretty much the block leader and he
talks to all the people on his one block
and he pretty much keeps them in line.
If anyone falls out of line of the
ideology he reports them and then the
Gestapo comes and gets them. In the
Soviet Union it's pretty much the same
thing. In the Soviet Union they had
block leaders as well that pretty much
checked out their city blocks, made sure
everyone was on board with the whole
communist ideology deal if you didn't
agree with it. the NKVD came in the
night and stashed you away just like the
Gestapo would. Same sort of a system.
Um, generally you're pretty much dead on
the nail. There really isn't a lot of
difference on the dayto-day of living in
a fascist or a communist system. The
difference is the marketing behind that
sort of a system. They both end up in
the same way for a day-to-day life. Like
if you're a average person and you wake
up and live a 24-hour period in a
society like that, it's almost the same.
The difference is the packaging. The
Soviets packaged or the communists
generally but the Soviets are like the
archetype for communism nowadays. The
Soviets packaged it as we are a
classless society who does not view race
and we are all unified in the common
purpose of improving the betterment of
our peoples uh of the Soviets. Uh the
Nazi Germans on the other hand which are
the archetype of fascism like pretty
much the the root fascism that a lot of
people look at now although really it
was the Italians but everyone looks at
the Germans. If you look at their
system, they say we are a peoples united
under the identity of the Germans and we
are removing all foreign influence of
these different groups, the Britons, um
the Jews and so on to create a unified
peoples that have really no differences
amongst them, which is also quite
interesting because those Germans were
socialist and most fascist governments
actually do implement socialist economic
systems which pretty much creates a
classless system. Um, and so the Nazi
Germans also have a classless system and
they are looking for the betterment of
their peoples, the German people, which
is just the only people who existed in
that system. While in the Soviet Union,
they say it's all Soviets regardless of
ethnicity. Although the truth of it was
it was the Russians above everyone else.
Um so generally
>> really but but really though the life
the life in between a fascist uh system
and also a communist system they're
actually uh day-to-day they actually are
much different especially from an
economic standpoint because in a
communist society the the government
heavily subsidizes things like for
example your common utilities like
electrical things like that. you still
would have an electrical bill and you
would have these utility bills, but
they're heavily subsidized by the state
and that dramatically reduces the cost
of the uh electrical or the utility
bills. So, that's one thing there. Also,
um the state owned most of the housing
inside of like for example the Soviet
Union. So, most people would pay like a
little token rent, like a little small
rent amount. I think it was like a small
little percent of their income to cover
basic maintenance, but they wouldn't pay
uh rent as in like the rent that we're
familiar with in a democratic country
like the United States. So, from an
economic perspective, it was much
different because in a fascist society,
you still had to pay all your bills. It
was barely subsidized by the state and
it was it was much different from
communism. Um, but there's a lot of
economic differences between the two,
mainly on just that aspect.
>> I would I I don't know. Oh, I think I
think in Nazi Germany at some point uh
housing was almost state operated if I'm
not mistaken.
>> Uh I I don't think so. Let I'll do some
looking real quick and find out though.
But I don't think
>> because in the Soviet Union I know I
know how the Soviet structure worked for
sure. I'm not really sure how the Nazi
structure worked. But in the Soviet
Union um there I don't believe there was
any rent at all. All housing was
operated by the state. there was none
that was privately operated and the rent
was non-existent because the apartment
was allocated to you based off of your
job. Uh and if you got a job, the
apartment and housing came along with it
because of the Soviet Union's law of a
right to work that everyone must be
employed and it's actually criminalized
if you were unemployed.
So, so basically the short answer is um
in in Germany during that time uh before
World War II, most Germans still owned
or rented their homes through private
landlords or companies. Um they never
abolished private property unlike
communism in Soviet society. It was
abolished. That was the whole tenant of
communism was the private property. It
was abolished completely and the state
owned everything. So you'd simply be in
uh state sub state subsidized housing
and it was it would pay a small token
amount of rent to stay there. basically
to cover basic maintenance and to put it
toward a common pot. But in Germany
though, the only thing the state
generally did is they did have rent
controls. Uh and also they did generally
control um who built what where. But
that's like you know even the US does
that. We have planning laws and things
like that. So there's nothing different
really there. Uh so no it was it was
very different. People still paid full
rent prices and that was not subsidized
inside of Germany.
>> H interesting. So actually it appears uh
to correct my answer to you there. I was
actually wrong on that. At least on the
economic side, it is slightly different.
Although Germany is consider Germany,
Nazi Germany at least during that period
was socialist and did largely present
itself as a classless society as
according to their theory at the time.
Germans are superior, but Germans are
also all equal to each other. Therefore,
there's not really any reason to have a
class, which was a larger pushing
element of them. You can find proof of
that in the Wilhelm Gustaf, which was a
cruise uh ship that the Germans built
that was classless. There was no class
system on board. You can also find that
in the Ministry of Labor's uh leisure
towns or leisure uh zones that also were
classless as well and just provided
middle class um amenities to all whether
you were lowass or highass uh which was
priv provided to all the workers of
Germany. Um so very similar system there
to that of the Soviet Union. Um but
still different to some regard. But as
far as living under a government like
that, as far as the ideology is
concerned, it is exactly the same with
the same level of enforcement. You have
to tow their party line, no matter what
it is, to the tea. And if you're ever
suspicioned of falling out of line of
that, both of them have enforcement
elements. In Nazi Germany, that would
have been the Gestapo. Inside of Russia,
that would have been the NKVD. Later,
the KGB that would literally come to
your place in the middle of the night.
So, no one would know what would happen.
They knock on your door and they tell
you, "You're under arrest. you're coming
with us right now. And off you went in
Germany to a camp, in Russia to a
goolog. Later that was changed to
prisons and goologs were generally
discontinued after Stalin's time.
Although they still existed to some
extent throughout the rest of the Soviet
Union, just not in such a large number.
Um, so I hope that does address it the
best we can. We actually had to clarify
that answer there and correct a uh
misassessment that I had. But a big
thanks to you once again for the support
and helping this channel to keep on
running. And with that, we are on to the
next one. And this one goes to Andrew
Honeyut who puts in a 10. And thank you
very much, Andrew. He said, "The
Yanarmia is a Russian youth military
organization that historically parallels
with another organization and this is
very disturbing and a sign of a dying
regime. Can you address it, please?"
>> Uh, and can you reread that one again
really quickly?
>> Yeah. He said, "The Yunarmmia is a
Russian youth military organization that
has historical parallels with another
organization, and this is very
disturbing and a sign of a dying regime,
and can we address it?" Uh I would have
to say that uh it is fairly disturbing
but generally groups like that uh exist
in most totalitarian states like in the
Soviet Union there was the young
pioneers in um China there was a
revolutionary guard. It is a fairly
similar sort of a system that you would
find in most um so I would actually have
to say it's concerning but not at all
offkey for a dictatorship like Russia.
Uh but a big thanks to you for the
support and I hope that does address
that the best I can. And with that we
are on to the next one. All right, and
our next one goes to Russ Rizzo who puts
in a 10. And Russ said, "Democracy is
not safe if the people tolerate the
growth of private power where it becomes
stronger than the democratic state
itself, and that is fascism, ownership
of government from and Franklin
Roosevelt 1938." Uh, honestly, I would
say, let me read that one more time.
Democracy not safe. Uh I if that's
referring to uh for example uh
corporations I think that's what it's
referring to if I'm understanding that
properly. Um I would say there's always
a risk to corporations consolidating
because obviously if you have large
companies that carry a lot of weight and
generate a lot of revenue um they
obviously have power because they have a
lot of money uh in their in their bank
account. So they have power because of
that. So I would say that is a huge
danger. But enforcer what say you? Uh, I
would have to say that I would agree
that is quite a huge danger. I wouldn't
necessarily say that's fascist. I'd
actually say that hyper capitalism can
end up being a threat uh to our system.
Um, and hyper capitalism is as dangerous
as any other form of an extreme. Um, but
I do thank you for the support and help
with this channel to keep it running.
But I'd actually have to disagree with
FDR's quote there a little bit. Um, and
also one other thing. Um, I also saw
someone say someone said something
interesting and I need to find it. I
need to find it. I I can find it. Um,
let's see.
Oh, let's see here. How many people uh
dang, why in the world did it disappear?
Oh, wait. Someone said, actually, I
found it. Someone said, well, Americans
agree with socialist concepts to some
degrees like fire departments and so on.
I wouldn't say that that's all
socialist. Those are just uh civil
services which have existed since the
dawn of time and therefore can't be
socialist because they've literally
existed through all of history before
there was even a concept of socialism.
It is always expected in a social
contract uh with a governing body of
some sort which always exists in the
social contract that the citizenry uh
are provided some sort of civil services
and some sort of protections and order
by a government and in exchange those
people work and then give some form of
dues usually in the form of a taxes to
the government for the upkeep of that
contract and also generally towards some
sort of a greater growth or benefit to
uh everyone at large. So I wouldn't
really say that the provision of fire
departments and civil services is
socialist because even back in the times
of medieval ages, the citizens of a city
corporation like the city of London
would always pay some sort of an excise
or a tax to the city corporation of
London for them to be able to build up a
uh treasury so that way they could uh
pay for civil services like fountains
for water or city walls for common
defense. uh and I wouldn't really say
that the uh any form of those civil
services or modern civil services for
that matter really fall under socialism.
That's just more so uh an expected civil
service as a part of a default social
contract. Uh at least in my take in in
my opinion. But Matthew, what do you
think?
>> Uh I would say every every government,
even the United States, has elements of
all kinds of different uh governance
systems. We obviously have elements of
socialism in our country, but they're
they're just mere elements of it. We're
we are nowhere near a true socialist
country. Not even close uh by any means.
And honestly, we should not strive for
that either. Because while there are
certain good positive aspects to every
form of governance, even communism,
there are good little bits and pieces of
it, the entire system as a whole of
communism doesn't work. It's been
proven. And also, we have not seen a
true socialist uh uh governance system
ever actually function in reality. It's
like utopian ideology. It's it sounds
great on paper, but in reality though,
it just doesn't work. Um, I'm not saying
that capitalism is perfect, but at the
same time though, uh, name a better
system. I personally haven't seen it.
And also, u, they can't stand the test
of time. And while some people may
criticize capitalism and say, "Oh, well,
you know, the United States has massive
problems today. Corporations are gaining
way too much power. They're influencing
politics and they're basically forming
an oligarchy within our country." I
would say you have a legitimate concern.
But just because there's issues does not
mean it's time to throw out the entire
system. Uh it simply needs to be
reformed. And I think we need strong
reform. So that's that's what I think.
>> And with that, we are on to the next
one.
>> And our next one goes to Snowy who puts
in a six. And Snowy said, "You guys
spend six days per week on the channel.
And what do what are actually your
future plans family-wise? And could you
combine this with a partner or having
kids?" Damn, that's a deep That's a deep
question right there. Hitting me like a
ton of bricks. But um honestly
I'll I'll be honest with you. We are
basically married to this thing. I'll be
perfectly honest. We spend a hell of a
lot of time on it. Um I I look at it as
basically like a startup business is
what I look at it like. So I justify
spending as many hours as I do on it by
looking at it like that. Um if you're a
business owner, you might as well expect
to work around the clock and that's
basically what we do. But I I obviously
do have plans uh family plans one day.
I'm not planning on sacrificing my
entire life uh personal life just for
the channel. But at the same time
though, I am very dedicated to making
sure this channel succeeds at the same
time. So uh I I'll have to see when that
comes around actually. But Enforcer,
what say you?
>> We fight and die to keep this channel
running every day and it it really does
take up a lot of our time every week. Um
but at the same time, uh I I do have a
plan because this like this is a great
thing that we do, but at the same time,
folks, I'm sure many of you all
understand, we also have to live our
lives. And once once a year goes by, you
never get that year back. So, I'm
eventually planning a lot like
Enforcement Mad to uh get married and
have a family because that's one of the
big goals in life for myself, you know,
just on a personal level is to actually
get married and have a family. Uh and
because it it would seem like a great
thing and you know, there's of course
troubles and tribulations like any sort
of normal uh interactions with a family
that will happen as a result of that.
It's not always, you know, roses every
single minute of every day. But at the
same time, it's something I really want
to do. It's a big thing of mine. So,
eventually, I'm going to get to that.
So, I'll have to just figure out uh how
in the world to balance the two uh the
best way to put it, but still a big
thanks to you for the support. I hope
that does address that well. And with
that, we are on to the next one. This
one goes to no please, who puts in a
five. And they said it is it not fair to
say if there were innocent Venezuelan
fishermen uh there would be an outcry
from their government over the death of
the innocents. You know, you actually
would think that that would be the case.
Nobody really seems to cry for any of
these guys when they get blown up. Like
truth be told, I haven't heard anyone in
Venezuela being outraged by it. I
haven't heard the Venezuelan government
saying they're outraged by it. I haven't
seen anything, as a matter of fact, of
any outrage. And I've seen some people
point that out in the chat tonight. And
I think that is a fairly decent laid to
the claim that a lot of these people
probably are involved in the cartel
because nobody's talking about them from
Venezuela as if the innocent have been
slain. Um, so with that, I hope that
does address that the best I can. Good
point, by the way. And with that, we are
on to the next one. And this one goes to
John Murray who puts in a five. And John
said, "Crazy idea. Don't you think the
CIA would be feeding targeting data to
the Navy for this purpose?"
>> Uh, most likely. That's what I would
assume. Uh, but I do thank you for the
support and I hope that this address
that well. And we are on to the next
one.
>> And our next one goes to Plazoth who
puts in a three and also Dan Brooks who
puts in a two. And thank you very much,
Bazoth and Dan, for that support and we
do appreciate that very, very much. And
we also have a two from Squirrel. And
Squirrel said for Acorn Catapoles.
Oh, and thank you so much for the
support, Squirrel. Still on the squirrel
jokes. I love those actually. Those are
pretty good. And I got to thank you huge
uh for the support and helping this
channel to keep on rolling. And with
that, we are on to the next one. And we
have a tweet from uh Split X who put in
that too. It said Russian soldiers
reached Leontoski right now.
>> And I thank you for the support and
sharing that with us. We'll look into
that after the show. But a big thanks to
you once again. And we are on to the
next one.
>> And this one goes to Cody Fritz who puts
in a two. And thank you very much Cody
as well. He said Matt's short war video
intro here one night. It slapped. And
also Cody Fritz, I hate to break it to
you. Um, but that's actually a YouTube
uh preset intro when you do a video
premiere. And by the way, um I've been
recently doing video premiieres quite a
lot for the short war videos. U they let
you pick from a list of pre- uh
developed uh intro cards for that. So I
usually pick the one called dramatic,
which is the one that you watch. I think
it's pretty sick. Honestly, I think it's
pretty good, but it's nothing we can use
here on the on the normal stream sadly.
But Enforcer, what say you?
>> I thank you so much for the support.
Matthew is correct on that. Those are
default intros. And we spent so much
time making this one. Please don't hate
it. It's good. I tried. But still, a big
thanks to you once again for support.
And we are on to the next one. All
right. And it is now time to jump into
our live chat questions proper and our
Morse code coders of the stream. And
tonight we had Paul Schultz, Kevin Jay,
Mason Miami, Joanie Dog, Norm
Pritchette, Arbo Garbo, Her Royal,
Fluffiness, Kush, Copio, Terra, Sire,
and Brian Blairestown. They said the LSA
Morse code decipher says now if we look
at this all sensibly we already knew the
US was in there lol lltsa
and
and the sound of money and y'all got
that done on the nail. That is the
Morsco message of the night. I gotta
say, y'all have been continuing to get
that correct for thousands and thousands
of days and I got to congratulate y'all
for that because Leo core has never
missed a message so far and continues to
let us know of the Morsco messages which
speak more about the tales of Captain
Crack Sparrow. And so with that, a big
congratulations to you all once again.
And with that, we are going to be moving
on into the live chats. Unfortunately,
folks, due to time constraints, we will
only be able to get three live chat
questions to round out our stream for
the night. And so with that, we are on
to the third to last question of the
night.
>> And this one goes to Mystical, who said,
"I have a question." Oh, good, good. Uh,
they said, "The narcotics on the boats
that were destroyed and after they were
airruck, um, apparently they dissolve
into the ocean and would that affect the
ocean life?" That, you know, that sounds
like a good alibi for these people on
these boats with like the four like 1,00
horsepower motors like strapped to the
back of it. They could say that's why we
need those massive motors because you
see the fish, they absorb the narcotics
and it turned out the narcotics were a
stimulant and the fish that normally
swam at 20 mph suddenly sped up to about
500 miles an hour. So that's why we need
these massive outboards. Uh but enforcer
what say you? Y that boy will be
overdosing on me fentanyl my boy like
man y but beyond that I'd have to say
that's a possibility actually you know
like that's actually something I haven't
thought about but in concentrated doses
near to the sight of the sinking that
actually could affect the wildlife maybe
even kill them. Um so that's actually a
little bit wild there. I've never
thought of it that way. I think we need
to the EPA to get on that whole deal and
see if that's actually healthy for the
environment or not because that
certainly can affect the trout
population without a doubt. Uh but still
I hope that does address that. Well, and
we are on to the second to last question
of the night.
>> Can you just imagine like for example if
there's like a sharks uh there like
sharks in the vicinity or something like
that and they get like some absorption
of that junk that comes from the boats
which is just straight up poison. Those
sharks I could see them jumping out of
the water like clapping fins and stuff
like that and like tweaking out like
that. Oh man, I tell you what, those
sharks I tell you what you got that's
that's probably what happened to
Jabberjaw. You know, you know how some
of those like elicit substances cause
you to have like jaw problems and stuff
like that? Like grit in the jaw and like
stuff like that? Uh I don't know what
they call that like coke jaw or
something like that. Like the people
that have that problem and stuff.
>> That's why they call him jabber jaw.
That's why they probably called him
that.
>> You ever heard of shark nato boy get
ready for cocon like oh buddy here they
come. Like honestly I'm not going to lie
folks thinking about cod sea life is
actually pretty funny. like not it
should not be, but it is pretty funny to
just think about as a concept. Um uh
also also I gotta say folks, wouldn't
you hate to run into a cod up swordfish
in the middle of the sea? Like that
would be a terrible thing to run up
into. Um but anyways, with that I hope
we address that. Well, quite an
interesting um brain uh exercise there.
Thinking about coaked up sea life, but
there I think there's a possibility of
that actually. Uh, Thor Cal Jim said,
"This tuna tastes different." Oh my god,
man. This tuna is really getting me
hyped. Like, I feel awake already. It's
like, maybe stop eating the tuna. But
anyways, with that, we are on to the
second to last question of the night.
>> And this one goes to the Commodore who
said, "How can Russia threaten NATO when
they can't even advance further into
Ukrainian territory? And aren't they
spent as a military force?" they pretty
much are spent as a military. But once
again, it's not about winning. It's just
about getting us into a situation where
they're either going to nuke us or we're
going to nuke them. That's really um
what we're kind of looking at. So, it
doesn't really matter if they're having
to win a conventional war or not. It
really just matters that they're forcing
us into a nuclear standoff at that
point. Um so, with that, I hope that
does address that the best I can. And we
are on to the final question of the
night. And so, who is like the last
person to put in the lucky last question
of the night? And this one goes to Scott
Sesser who said, "Do you think the CIA
is really there in Venezuela to try to
steal the Nobel Peace Prize?"
>> Oh my god. Oh man. I actually heard he's
already getting nominated again for more
Nobel Peace Prizes. I think that guy
from Argentina like gave him some plaque
saying that he nominated for the Nobel.
I don't know why this is such a big
obsession. I mean, honestly, it's a I
don't even get why people really want
the medal. Like, I don't like what does
it change, you know? Like, it doesn't do
anything for anyone. I I heard an
explanation actually made kind of sense.
Like I'm not I don't really care about
the Nobel Peace Prize, me personally.
But um the explanation I've heard is
that they nominated the current woman in
Venezuela for acts done in 2024 that led
to peace. The so the word on the street
from someone that out there that really
wants the prize is that they nominated
her for 2024 and there's been so much
stuff that's been done in 2025 that it's
time to uh make sure that the 2025 prize
gets put toward the rightful owner. They
said sir sir 2025 it's a big year. They
said big year for Nobel. They said Nobel
Peace Prize. A prize for peace noble
noble peace. That's what they say. You
know, a lot of people have been talking
about those bell ringers. You know,
those stupid homework things that you
have to do when you go into high school
and you sit down at the desk and the
teacher gives you a bell ringer. And I
always thought that those things were
really stupid. I was like, I just sat
down. Why am I doing a math quiz? Tell
me why. I do not understand. But beyond
that, one thing that I will say about
this whole no bell is that I have no
bells in my hotels. That kind of rhymes
a little bit. You walk into the hotel,
there's no bell hops. There's none of
those. I don't even know why they called
them bell hops. Do they hop over a bell?
Did they ever hop over a bell? I never
saw one do that. They said, "Sir, sir,
the name it doesn't make sense." And I
said, "It doesn't it doesn't make sense
at all. But one thing I will say is that
that Javier Javier, he's down there in
Argentina and he nominated me for a
Nobel. And I got to be honest with you
all, his stock market has no bells going
off because it's about collapse. We're
trying to bail him out. We gave him
another 20 billion today. We said we
don't have enough money for Ukraine, but
we have 40 billion for Argentina. How do
we do that? I don't know. Call it uh
magic money the way it just appears like
that. Like monopoly money. Speaking of
monopoly, we have been allowing some
companies to get strategic holdings
inside of the United States. You know,
some people have been looking into it,
looking into the cameras, looking deep
into people's private lives. Uh invasion
of privacy, but we call that nowadays
security. We call it security. It's a
great wonderful thing. By the way,
everyone, I don't know if you all have
heard about this, but the Atlantic is a
very interesting place. I've actually
been talking to the Secretary of Health
and he told us that if we dip all the
children up to their ankles in the
Atlantic Ocean, they will all be free of
the Tylenol syndrome, which I thought
was a really crazy suggestion. I don't
know how they're all supposed to get in
the Atlantic, but we'll make it we'll
make it work eventually. Also, by the
way, another thing, another side note.
Everyone is freaking about about that
whole base in guitar. You are fake news.
There's nothing to worry about. They're
just going to Idaho. They wanted to see
the potatoes. They wanted to see where
Five Guys gets their fries from. They
get them from Idaho. And I got to be
honest with y'all. I don't know why Five
Guys cost so much. You know, we brought
down the price of eggs, but Five Guys
has been skyrocketing as a result. It's
like $50 for a hamburger from Five Guys,
and they give you these shitty fries.
They are really greasy. And they sit at
the bottom of the bag and they're really
cold by the time you get them. And some
of them are crunchy. It's like there's
nothing inside. It's like nothing but
fry. And you go turn off the fryer. And
I It's just terrible. It's terrible. You
got to stop frying these things. They
are fried to a crisp. It's terrible.
Honestly, really bad. But beyond that,
everyone, this is actually the end of
the show. Many of y'all may not believe
it. Many of y'all are very sad. Some
people have said, "Sir, sir, this is the
greatest show that's ever run on
YouTube." And I'd have to agree. There's
just none better. People have been
saying that it's the greatest show
that's ever run since audio was recorded
since videos were recorded. Everyone
said it's better than Steamboat Willie
and that Walt Dibney who made the Mickey
Mouse. I don't know who the hell that
guy is, but he created Dimney World. And
why make bad one good? It's It's all
right everyone. It's all right. Don't
worry. Don't freak out. It's all good.
Everything's under control. But beyond
that, everyone, I thank you all so much
for watching. We've had a great
viewership here tonight. 106,000 people.
A lot of folks are really impressed with
that. myself included. Wow, that's a lot
of people. And we had uh what what do
you meant to call it? 16.2,000 people
here tonight. That's a nice crowd. We
bring in big crowds. Everyone goes,
"That's Wow, that's a big crowd. That's
a great crowd. Incredible crowd." But a
big thanks to all of y'all once again
for watching and we will see you all
tomorrow at 10 p.m. Eastern time to
cover the next 24 hours of news from
around the world. If you have enjoyed,
please make sure to like, comment, and
subscribe. We'd love to have you. You
really would. We'd love to have you all.
And of course, we will see you all
tomorrow. And if there is a shortware
video to be made, I the greatest the
enforcer will be making the video. Some
people have never said the videos have
been better. Sarah Sarah the video can't
be better. But beyond that, we will see
you all then. Good night. Good luck.
Take care. Stay safe. Long live the
least spring army. Long live Slavic
Ukrainian or whatever. And uh long live
the Republic. Thank you everyone. And
with that folks, thank you all for
joining us once again tonight. And a big
shout out to the 106,000 people that
were here by the very end of the stream.
And we will see you all tomorrow night.
at 10 p.m. Eastern on our next nightly
warrior stream and on the short war
video tomorrow if there is enough news
to cover. But with that folks, thank you
all for joining us in Slava Ukraine.
Here I'm Slava. Get some rest and good
night
forever.
My forever to the future of
the spring
as boys
on the world
of future
futures
Forever
until the future
follows
greatly
world
as heaven to
Future of fun, future of love.