a few weeks ago I did the worst
interview of my entire life from a
Charisma perspective and I did it on the
largest platform that I have ever been
on I did it in front of millions of
people and I want to share with you what
went wrong what I think I could have
done differently and how you can
hopefully avoid making the same mistakes
that I did so that you don't screw it up
like me so I want to start with a photo
this is going to tip it off what
interview it was this Diary of CEO this
Bartlett awesome dude had a great time
with him his team is amazing and after
the interview they give me this
incredible book that has all of these
photos from the interview and
unfortunately in all of them I'm making
massive Charisma mistakes this photo
right here I have three which I will
detail but first I want to talk about
how I wound up there making these
egregious mistakes that I talk about and
have talked about in almost all of my
videos so a month or two ago I'm reached
out to by the diary of the CEO team they
want to set up an interview when stepen
is in Los Angela and I say yes I've seen
their podcast I'm very excited to do it
and they're so professional they do
everything they can for me to make this
interview a home run we have a
pre-interview call which is actually
rather rare and they talk about the
topics they want to cover they ask me if
there's things I want to do they see if
I want to do a live Charisma breakdown
which I say no to because it takes me a
long time to do those but we basically
iron out the types of things we're going
to be talking about and during this
period I've sharing you know what's
going on with friends and they're
telling me that I should probably
prepare for this and I sort of agree and
I sit down to try to prepare for it and
every time that I do something in me
gets fidgety I'm like a kid who doesn't
want to do his homework and so the week
before I'm starting to review some of my
old videos because I know there's going
to be questions from the past in there
but even that is just feeling
uncomfortable and next thing I know I'm
in the car driving over and we're in the
studio it's a 10 camera setup it's the
most professional thing I've ever been
to the team is incredibly friendly
incredibly inviting do you want to water
how can we make you comfortable Steph
comes in we hang out and chat for 15
minutes which is a great way to settle
people down pre- interiew for nerves and
I'm actually feeling pretty comfortable
during this entire interaction I'm
excited and then he goes starts and asks
the question that I've been asked
legitimately hundreds of times if you
had to explain in your own words what it
is that you're doing for those people in
a simple way what would you how would
you say that and the answer to this is
written on my homepage I've said it
hundreds of times it's we help people
turn on their Charisma and confidence in
the moments that matter the most I know
this like I know my own name like I know
my social security number and instead of
saying that what I do is I just start
yapping I have no idea what I'm going to
say but I'm just yapping in circles and
I probably take no exaggeration not just
on this question but in these
introductory questions about 10 to 15
minutes of C
ously sorting through what I do how many
viewers we have Etc mercifully this is
cut down tremendously in the final edit
which is why the his team sort of saved
me from this and it doesn't look like
the worst interview I've ever done but
it was abysmal had this been live
television people would have definitely
tuned out and been like why is this guy
teaching Charisma this is so
uninteresting and confused and as I look
back it's genuinely hard for me to watch
the inter interv it took weeks before I
could do it in fact friends asked me how
it went and I was like it was a crash
and burn situation but I just want to go
to this photo and start to talk about
the concrete mistakes that I made so you
can see here the three that I'm
referring to our first one crossed arms
forgivable it happens at times second
one which is just utterly egregious on
camera which is hands on face this is a
this is something that I do and people
do when they're nervous right we we we
touch ourselves we PR ourselves and I
did that in almost every photo in here
has me with a hand on my
face but the big one the one that I
think led to a lot of this was my very
poor collapsed posture and so when you
have poor posture you see Stevens is
quite nice here it's tougher to take a
deep breath it's tougher to calm down
and this sends you up into your head
where you start thinking a lot and like
I was yapping I was not grounded in my
body I wasn't connected either to the
thing that I'd done 300 times nor deeply
to the present moment to be able to
respond in a slow powerful coherent
way and So eventually what happened is a
week and a half later after I texted
Stephen and said hey did that go okay
and he kindly assured me that he thought
it would turn out great in the edit and
he had a good time which I did too uh
there was a lot of moments in this
interview that I felt very connected to
Stephen and there was there was some
beautiful moments in there as well
particularly at the end but the
interview drops and it was 2 hours and
10 minutes and we had shot for about 3
hours and 45 minutes so about an hour
and a half got cut of this and it came
out okay it came out pretty good even I
hit the points that I've talked about in
the past there's moments of genuine
connection between he and I which are on
camera and captured so thank God for the
10 camera setup that allowed for such
smooth editing between the pieces that I
did wrong but like I said If This Were
live television it would have been a
huge issue so as I reflect now weeks
later on what went wrong because it it
would have tanked were this an interview
or a job process I did not turn the
Charisma on command on I'm trying to
figure out why couldn't I follow my own
advice why couldn't I do big gestures
why couldn't I get my hand off my face
why couldn't I speak more clearly and
confidently and most obviously have a
clear answer to the questions I knew
were coming this is a core tenant of
what I teach in the Charisma University
course why did I feel like a child with
homework to avoid
beforehand and what I'm I'm starting to
realize is that I think that there are
phases to learning
anything there's an old phrase that
first you must learn the rules before
you can break them and when I look at
the last 10 or 15 years of Charisma on
command it is me learning the rules it
is me sharing with you the ideas and
habits that I've been adding to
myself move your hands like this make
eye contact like this tell stories like
this even the things Stephen asked me at
one point what are the things that you
should remove the things that make
people dislike like you these are things
that I'm adding these are ideas about
things not to do so you're going into
conversation with extra awareness don't
put your hands in your pockets don't
talk about this topic in this particular
way and that's the first stage of I
guess any sort of art is you're adding
to yourself you're emulating others and
I do think that there needs to there
needs to be and in fact I don't feel
like there's a choice right now the way
that my system reacted when I sat down
there a period of time where you stop
adding to yourself and you allow
yourself to let go you
subtract you forget all the rules about
what your hand should do and how you
should tell the story and you drop into
your gut and your heart and you just
speak what is real in the moment and in
my life with Charisma with every
interaction that I'm having this is
what's going on for me and it is
a very very scary experience especially
when the cameras are on because I feel
ripped between the old way that I know
works that I have done to achieve so
many things that I wanted to achieve
that I have taught other people that I'm
on the record is saying this is the way
to do it as I've shared with you in so
many videos in the
past and there's a part of my system
that just won't let me do it and if I
try now I'm yapping now I'm speaking
from this confused spun up heady place
that is neither the old charismatic
performative way of being nor is it this
new grounded present way of being and so
I guess what I wanted to do in this
video is share with you that probably to
come there's going to be things that
sound contradictory to things that I've
said in the
past and I don't think that they are I
think that they're representative of
different stages the first stage being
learn the art learn the skills learn Le
the rules and the second being let it go
and be real be you be the carismatic
person that you always are underneath
all of the social conditioning and
fear
so that's what happened that's that was
it was an incredibly anxious week of my
life it was also a week of deep
gratitude for the anxiety that my job
sometimes creates in me as I show up in
new uncomfortable ways ways and then the
weeks after the reactions that I got
were so loving and kind and particularly
as I mentioned before there was
something that I shared at the end of
the video that I've not talked about on
the main channel that has to do with uh
significant struggle of my past that has
shaped me in my coping mechanisms in
many ways so I will say if you'd like to
check out the interview uh and see all
of the things I talked about including
now with a greater eye a lot of the cuts
in the beginning hopefully some of the
more connected moment in the middle and
that piece at the end I will put a link
in the description here but between you
and
I it's okay to let go of the things that
I've taught you in the past you don't
have to come into every conversation and
every interaction trying to improve and
better yourself in fact I guess what I'm
learning is that there is a
time to just
be so that's what I got for you today I
appreciate you guys I'll see you in the
next one