In our last golf school, one of our
attendees told us he had really spent a
lot of time the last couple months
adding more rotation to his swing. He
also told us his handicap has started to
go up since doing that. There's a reason
why adding rotation to your swing can
make your swing worse. I want to show
you today what needs to happen to offset
or complementing more rotation. Three of
the most common swing issues we see with
golfers is one not having any slack in
transition. Two is having an open club
face. And three is leading the arms up,
not allowing the arms to work properly.
If you have one, two, or all three of
those, more rotation will make your
swing worse. So, let's talk about those
individually. The first one is no slack
in the back swing. What are we talking
about when we need slack?
Yes. So basically at a dress, let's call
it you 0 shoulder and hips. If you're
looking at above, I know it's a line
through my shoulders and a line through
my hips. Those are
rotationally.
Yeah. Rotationally, just just to show
where they are if you're looking from
above. So at the top, I'm going to have
about 45 degrees of difference between
them.
Right.
Okay. So hips 45, shoulders 90. What you
need to make sure of is that at the top
of the swing, you still have a little
motion left where you could before the
club changes direction, there's a little
bit of slack where I can start the down
swing sequence with the lower body. So,
if I was maxed out and I started that
down swing sequence, you see how that
spins my shoulders. So having that
little bit of where I can have a little
slack in there to do this allows the
pelvis to start and then it pulls on the
shoulders a little later which buys me
that little bit of time for this club to
kind of pitch back in the slot.
Now this is what the golfer in the
school was doing. He had no slack. We're
able to recognize it pretty quickly now
just because we've done it for so long.
But we were asking him to talk to us
while he was hitting and it was like,
"Well, yeah, I went to lunch the other
day and and like you can almost take
your breath away because you're maxing
out that differential
and it's like pulling a rubber band to
its max and then letting it go and
everything's going to snap." So his idea
of more rotation, more rotation, and
then more rotation in the down swing was
just there was no room to let that slack
kind of slot the club and everything
just shot straight out and he was
shooting higher scores because of it.
Yeah, the slack that you need is the
slack between the lead arm and the
torso. So if you've pinned that early,
it's the same thing. Then as soon as the
torso starts going, the arm goes. So you
want that little bit of slack so that as
this club is finishing the back swing,
the pelvis starts its down swing, the
torso gets pulled, and then finally the
lead arm gets a little bit closer to the
chest. That's that last slack that you
need in order to rotate where you can
get the body open and not have the club
pitching up over the plane too much.
One of the most difficult concepts to
grasp in the swing is almost the entire
swing, you going to have parts of the
body doing opposite motions. You don't
want everything doing back swing motions
and everything doing down swing motions,
but you've got to have that built-in
slack to be able to do opposing
movements. So, that's number one. Make
sure you have slack if you're trying to
add more rotation. If not, you're going
to play worse. Number two is an open
club face. And this is a big deal for a
lot of golfers.
You can check this on your own. This is
two easy easy checkpoints to take a look
at. When you get to the top of your
swing with this club, let's just say
it's in a good spot here up somewhere
above my hands or behind my hands,
whatever, however long your back swing
is,
you want to see the face of that club on
the top side of the shaft. That's the
first thing you want to look for.
You don't want it pointing to the sky,
and you definitely don't want to see the
head of that club and the mass of that
club behind the shaft. So, that would be
indicator number one. Now, you can still
mess it up from there.
Oh, yeah. So, as you as you let's just
say you made a good sequence and the
club's coming down
when it's on your back line, if it's
laid back too much, that can be an
issue. That puts it in a position where
it gets into the last checkpoint here.
We call it checkpoint six in our swing
system. The face is too much to the sky.
And if you rotate on that club face,
well, you see what you're lagging to the
Yeah, you're lagging the hoszle. We have
other videos where you want to feel like
you're lagging the sweet spot. But if
you're lagging the hoszle, which is what
you're doing there, and you pull on
that, you've got a lot of work to do
very late in the swing. I'm not saying
you can't play like that, but that
player to me, guy came in saying, "I'm
only shanking it when I come on your
hitting mats." I'm like, "Well, that
doesn't make any sense. These hitting
mats, the real thing, not magic. This is
Yeah, it's just is what it is."
Uh, and that was it. He was lagging the
hoszle all the way to the ball. So I put
my finger on his club here and said,
"Hey, try to drag that more to the
ball." And he realized right away that,
"Oh, I see. Now that's a totally
different feeling for getting the club
to the ball." So if you look at your
swing and check it with an app or the
swing coach app even, you can start to
slow it down and see where that is in
space. You don't want it pointing too
much to the ground. You don't want to
the sky. Straight up and down pretty
much in the middle, which is a good
place to be.
That's a great Brian Manzela little
trick that we've borrowed from him for
years. And I'll demonstrate that cuz I
want to make sure everyone understands
what you were just talking about. I'll
go uh
so I'm I'm to the top. So Sean's going
to get back here behind me and and put
his finger. So now I can feel the sweet
spot of the club.
Most of you are starting down like this
where it just slides right off.
I've got to be able to rotate the club
to where I'm hooking
his finger and taking his finger to the
ball rather than just sliding right off
of it.
That's a beginner trade is to pull the
hoszle because it feels like you're
pulling a baseball bat, right? and the
baseball bat has doesn't have the mass
of the club head offset from the shaft.
So, that's a powerful feeling. Well, the
name of the game in golf is managing and
that sweet spot. So, that's what Mike is
saying there. You pull the sweet spot to
the ball. Now, when you're doing that,
you can pivot because you can have the
handle a little bit more in front
because your right hip's coming around
and you can have your body open and
adding rotation at that point would
potentially help.
TPI said for years, rotation is a face
opener.
Yeah. So, if your face is already open
and I try to rotate more, now I'm taking
an issue at making it compounded as a
bigger issue and that's not going to go
well for your shots. And then the last
thing is the idea of just leaving the
arms up and turning.
Yeah. So, this is a good one. And
this kind of ties both of those
together.
And this is where we can use the Swing
Coach app in a minute to show you. It's
the hand path that corresponds to that.
Right. So, if I go up to the top and
make a kind of an orthodox back swing
and I pivot my body and I don't do
anything with my arms, I just kept them
up because there was a trend years ago
said, "Leave your arms up. Leave your
arms up." I mean, that may have helped
the guy that was doing this, right? I
mean, never say it doesn't help, but if
you're if you're spinning and leaving
your arms up, the hand path, the track
that the hand path takes is so out now,
you've got to have a lot of side bend
and the club dropping kind of vertically
in this plane just to make contact. It's
just not a great way to do it or you're
going to start pivoting and what most
golfers do just crash over the top.
So, we've done this for years in lessons
for golfers who've done that.
Thankfully,
I think we don't we haven't done it in a
while. I think a lot of you got to play
a lot of golf during the lockdown and a
lot of these swing ideas got rips behind
them and it made everyone started to
realize how bad some of these ideas are.
Let's have you go to the top. So, I'm
going to grab Sean's shoulders and we'll
do this in a lot in lessons and say,
"All right, let me see you get to the
ball and if he if he's can't use his
shoulders, it literally locks up. Now,
you know what to do with your arm.
That's it.
That's the swing right there." and even
that crossover because if you did that
over here,
right,
that's that's a perfect looking little
exit. So, some of these concepts will go
a long ways to helping you.
So, if I'm
this way and trying to add more
rotation, you can see where that's
taking my hand. So, you got to have that
offset for the rotation to actually
plane the club. So, again, we're going
to do the swing coach app to do that.
So, let me get it set up, come back and
show you a great drill to use to do all
three of these and you can add more
rotation. We've got the Swing Coach app
running. I've got the screen recording,
so Sean's not going to be able to hear
the feedback very well. I'm going to get
him set up. And what we've got him set
on is hand path halfway down. Now,
Shawn's goal is to get the hips
resquared again as early as he can while
having a good hand path. If you don't
have what we just talked about in order,
the hands are going to shoot out. and
this earlier rotation, which I think a
lot of you would benefit from thinking
earlier rotation than more rotation.
Ah, very good point.
Okay. So, that's going to throw the
hands out. So, we've got to have that
slack built in. Got to have a club face
in good spot. We've got to be able to
get the arms down to achieve all this.
Okay.
Okay. So, let me get you set up. Where
you want to stand?
Um, right here. Right through my hands.
So, it'll tell you if you're not in the
right spot.
Swing when ready.
This is pretty good. If I my takeway
there, it looks about right. Let me get
my big hand out of the way.
Ready?
Yep.
All right. I'm going to do the bad
first.
Okay. Which one we doing?
I'm going to do uh leaving the arms up.
Okay.
And carrying too much.
Okay. You're going to see a very drastic
version of that.
Hands steep halfway down. No surprise
there.
Yeah.
Okay. So, now we're going to add some
slack to this as the body is starting to
unwind.
So, yeah. So, my my feel is that I could
actually have a little bit of slack or I
can unwind and the arms will sink a
little and be in a good spot with my
hand path. All right. Is it ready?
Yep.
Hands at half down. Shallow.
We actually had hand path shallow by
one.
And I felt that.
Now, this is good way to practice where
you go steep steep steep steep. Try to
do a little bit p like instead of just
trying to get it right, try to move past
it a little bit. But a lot of you are
going to have to do that just to move it
at all.
Right. So,
right, try one more. Feeling I felt both
sides of the the coin here.
Good swing.
All right, we got the good swing. Got
the green signal. So,
all right, that's a great practice
session.
The great thing about using a a tool
like the Swing Coach app is that you can
have your mind somewhere else and get
feedback on something as kind of a past
fail. So, you don't have to try to think
of it's something we hear all the time.
I can't think about five things in down
swing. Nobody can. You want to have one
swing queue and then you're monitoring
what that kind of downstream effect has
on the rest of your swing. If you set up
the app correctly, pick the correct
parameters to practice on. You can knock
out two or three things at once as you
work on your swing. It's the best tool
that we've ever used. It's a free
two-eek trial. Give it a try if you
haven't used it yet. Soon to be
available on Android right now on
iPhone. Give it a try. I think you're
really going to like it and your swings
really going to like