Okay, Sam, what is a longunning AI
agent?
>> A longrunning AI agent is an autonomous
stateful software process that can
persist for hours or days, maintaining
memory and checkpoints.
>> It can plan and execute multi-step
goals, call external tools and APIs,
monitor progress, recover from failures,
and keep working without constant user
prompts.
>> At least that's what chat GPT told me.
Okay, so what you heard in that intro
that was made with Sora 2 by the way.
Pretty fun tool if you ask me. Uh today
I want to take a quick look at what they
call longunning AI agents. So the way I
want to define this is uh a longunning
AI agent is an autonomous stateful
software process that can persist for
hours or days. Okay, we're not going to
do days. Maintaining memory checkpoints
so it can plan execute multi-step goals.
Call external tools. That could be MCP
servers that we're going to use today.
APIs, monitor progress, recover from
failures, keep working with constant
user prompts or without constant user
prompts. So we should kind of give like
a goal and it should work towards that
goal. We're going to introduce something
else that I call time tasks. I will show
you that. Uh but we are going to use
cloud code today. uh and I built some
MCP servers to help us do research and
help us execute uh the task we want to
do while staying inside this uh time
task window that is going to keep the
agent running over a longer time
actually to do a yeah to try to do a
task and execute some goals we have set.
So let's start over here in the
terminal. Let's go to claude right. Uh
you can see we are in the long agent
directory here as you can see on top
here. And for this directory I have
built some MCP tools. So the tools we
have these are my global tools Gemini
and Jitub. You can just ignore those.
But we have a gro server. Uh the tools
here is that we can search x.com. We can
look for handles. We can look for
popular post. That is some tools we
have. Or um we have the Reddit server
that can kind of do the same on Reddit.
do research, find posts, search for
post, right, that is on Reddit. And I
have a tool here called uh Reddit um no
research display. This is going to
create like a live up uh real time web
page that we can compile all the
research and we can update this in real
time. You'll kind of see how it works
when we start this now. So uh we also
have some other tools. These are kind of
the builtin tools. If we go to where can
we see those
n tora so these are the tools like web
search fetch and everything so I don't
need an MCP server to do a web search uh
so what we want to do now uh you can see
here is that uh in my claw MD file uh I
have something called important if you
are on a timebased task always adhere to
the time spent on a task also don't ever
stop working before the time is up.
Okay, this is a bit important. This is
the way I like to do uh long running
tasks. You can there's there's a bunch
of way to do it, but this is a very
simple way if you just want to get
started. So, let's look at my starting
prompt now. So, here it is. So, you can
see your next task is timebased. The
agent should do 5 minutes of research
using MCP servers and tools and make
live updates and improvements on the web
page on the topic Sora 2. Is it's over
now? I was supposed to do is it over
now. Okay, so like this uh write an
in-depth article marks three paragraphs,
bullet points. Goal is to find a sor 2
video to embed. Keep updating and
refining. Don't just add content. Use uh
update and refine the existing. We have
adding relevant images and video that
involves the topic if applicable. The
time frame for a job like I said 5
minutes. keep count of this time in a
background task and hard stop for
research after 5 minutes. So here we
kind of have the timebased task. I only
want agents this time to work for 5
minutes. We're going to run do a second
run where I do 10 minutes and we're
going to check out the differences. So
I'm just going to start this now and you
can see what's going to happen now is I
think the first thing is to start the
timer. It should be we can just look at
use like a background batch task here.
Yeah, we have yeah we have a sleep 300.
So I'm just going to accept that. And
you can see down here one background
task running. So this is counting now to
5 minutes. 300 seconds is 5 minutes. And
here you can see we are already starting
the tool call. So we are doing web
search. We are searching for OpenAI
video generation. So what I can do now
is I can open up my local host 3000 to
check out the live server.
So you can see there's no content here.
Okay. So here we got the content right.
So it did a quick update here on the web
page. Let me just adjust this a bit. So
you can see Sora 2 is it over now? And
this made some updates. I guess it's
kind of behind my head now. You but you
can see we have done some updates here
now. Uh yeah in the real time. So you
can see we are still using Grock here.
We are going to X looking for
information. We are doing some Reddit
searches. So I'm just going to let this
run now. I'm going to record this so you
can see the changes in real time and
I'll come back when the five minutes uh
has uh completed here.
[Music]
Okay. So you can see uh the bash output
now time is up. So 5 minutes have
passed. Yes, this worked perfectly. So
now we kind of adhere to that 5 minute
research complete and we stopped.
Perfect. That's what I wanted to see.
And we have some key findings here. Uh
unfortunately we couldn't embed an
actual Sora 2 video. Okay. Uh, that's
fine, I guess. Uh, let's take a look at
the results here. So, you can see we
have the title. Not even close. Sora 2
just launched and it's already defining
AI video released 30th of Dece
September. Calling it the chat Gypty 3
opponent for video. Okay. So, yeah. Uh,
this looks to be uh
legit information. Uh, but it's not very
good. We didn't get any images and
stuff, but that was not the point. The
point was just to test this out and see
how it works. Uh, now we can use our
tool to just clear this because we're
going to do a 10-minute run. Clear
content. This should trigger the MCP
tool to actually remove this content,
right? Because we are running this in
real time. Yep, there we go. So, now
we're just going to do I think we're
just going to clear this, right? And
we're going to send off the same prompt.
Uh, but this time it's going to be 10
minutes.
So, we just do the same prompt, but we
changed the timing here. So, I'm going
to do Yeah, I updated everything to 10
minutes. And yeah, let's just run it
again and see if there's any difference
running this task for 5 minutes uh or 10
minutes. Okay. Yeah, sleep 600. Perfect.
Background task is running. Yeah. So,
again, I'm just going to let this run
and I'll be right back.
[Music]
Okay, so you can see the 10 minutes
research task was completed. If you
scroll up here, you can see the bash
output was uh 10 minutes has elapsed,
time is up. And again, it adhere to that
instruction and it just stopped the
research. So that is perfect. That means
that we can try to scale this even more.
We could set 30 minute research task,
right? And just keep blowing on here.
And we can just change this setup to
other stuff. We can do coding, maybe
some time task on working on a code,
writing tests, and expanding uh on
features. Uh yeah, you can see basically
uh we did pretty much the same, but we
just spent longer time. So if you look
at the output, uh I guess it was pretty
good for me. This was a bit too
expensive. We added an image, so that
was a nice touch, but uh this was too
much information if you ask me. We
didn't really ask for that. Uh but this
is just adjustments we can do in the
prompting, right? Uh the main core idea
today was to see if we could keep the
task running for the set time we set,
right? And maybe for a future video, we
can do like a coding task that is going
to be like 30 minutes long just to see
how that works. uh because if we take a
look at kind of the statement from open
from anthropic they said that uh cloud
4.5 is a state of the art on the swbench
verified uh practically speaking they
observed it maintaining focus for more
than 30 hours on complex multi-step task
uh I think you will need a good
framework for that but maybe it's
possible I'm not sure how exactly they
did this uh but we did 10 minutes this
is 30 hours that's a whole different
ball game of uh running this long
running agent task. But um yeah, like I
said, I hope this was interesting and I
hope this gave you some ideas on how you
can start learning playing around with
uh setting this longunning agent task
and maybe you can do it time based as I
did or you can do it goal based. There's
a lot of ways to choose here. Uh but all
in all, a very interesting thing and
it's just going to get more and more of
this uh implemented into your workflow.
Uh, at least that's what I think and you
might as well just start playing around
with it now so you have some idea uh
what people talk about when they say
longunning AI agents. So yeah, thank you
for tuning in. Have a great weekend and
we speak