People talk a lot about passive income.
This
>> is not a thing. Look, there's two ways
to get wealthier, and passive income is
not part of that equation, but what's
really important for people is how we
should spend money. Cuz I've written
about money and finance and investing
for 20 years, and I can tell you the
correlation between how much you spend
and how happy you are. It can exist, but
it is not as simple as you think. Morgan
Hel is the legendary financial guru,
>> revealing that everything we've been
told about saving and spending money
>> could be our biggest downfall. And
here's why. If you're unhappy with your
life, it is a very easy assumption to
make that if you had more money, a
bigger house, a better car, whatever it
might be, things would be better. And
it's a lie we tell ourselves, of course,
because here's the truth. So much of
spending is a psychological itch that
you're trying to scratch. And that
manifests in so many different ways. For
example, life is a competition. It
doesn't matter how well I'm doing, it
matters how well I'm doing relative to
you. And the most tangible way to do
that is through material stuff.
>> I was reading some funny stats. They say
that if you win the lottery, the
probability of your neighbor going
bankrupt increases.
>> It's an amazing statistic. So, be
careful who you socialize with because
you're going to anchor to them as a
baseline level of success and happiness.
>> So, is it wrong to buy a Rolex?
>> Absolutely not. But when it's
controlling your personality, it's no
different than any other addiction where
it's forcing you to do things that you
otherwise don't want to do.
>> What about people who don't seem to
spend anything?
>> It's just as dangerous. Like there's
something called post-traumatic broke
syndrome and I'll talk about that. But I
guarantee you that everyone can spend
money in a way it's going to make them
happier.
>> So if I wanted to make a framework to
know how to spend my money, where do I
start? But also based on everything you
know about money, if I want to get
complete financial freedom, what's the
five things that I should be thinking
about?
>> The first thing that I think that's most
important is
>> I see messages all the time in the
comment section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because a strange way
you are you're part of our history and
you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you
Morgan.
Everybody loves to talk about investing.
They love to talk about saving money.
But I've never heard anybody emphasize
the importance of spending money. You've
written this book, The Art of Spending.
So, it begs the question, why would
someone like you who sells tens of
millions of copies of their books when
they write about something and really,
really cares about the art of writing
commit themselves to writing a book
about the art of spending? when you
couldn't when you could have written
anything that you wanted to and it would
have been a success.
>> So I've written about money and finance
and investing for 20 years and almost
never had I myself
said what is my spending philosophy? I
could tell you how I invest. I can tell
you how I save. I could tell you why I
do those things. If five years ago if
you said Morgan tell me your philosophy
about spending in your own life I'd be
like I I don't really know. And as I
looked into it, there are literally tens
of thousands of books on how to invest,
how to grow your money, how to get rich,
how to help your career. That top that
topic is endless. There is virtually no
book out there written about spending
money. And I think the reason why is
because we don't I think we intuitively
think nothing needs to be said because
the answer should be obvious. More is
better, fancier is better. That's the
end of the topic. But if you know
particularly wealthier people I mean it
affects everybody but particularly
wealthier people you know it's not that
simple that the correlation between how
much you spend and how happy you are it
it can exist everyone can spend money in
a way it's going to make them happier
but it is not as simple as you think and
as I started digging into it in my own
life of when have I been envious of
other people of their material
possessions why was I envious why when
have I been jealous why was I jealous
what kind of spending made me happy.
What left me completely flat?
It's it's a much more complicated topic
than it seems at the surface. You know,
another title for the book could have
been the psychology of spending money
because that's what this is. So, it's a
look at the psychology of greed and envy
and social aspiration and like climbing
the social ladder, who you're trying to
impress, whether those people are paying
any attention to you. That's what this
book is. So for someone like me who
wants to improve my relationship with
spending, I guess the question, yeah, I
guess the qu first question is
understanding the art of spending money,
simple choices for a rich, what is it
going to do for me? How is it going to
make my life better to understand this?
Why why does it matter to the person
that's listening right now?
>> I think it is a very easy assumption to
make if you're unhappy with your life
that if you had more money, those
problems would go away.
>> Sometimes it can be true. It's not
automatically false. It's just easier to
assume that that's true than it actually
is. And so I guarantee you that every
single person listening to this right
now has some degree of that. If I had a
little bit more money, my problems would
go away, even if they don't necessarily
know it or not. So much of spending is a
psychological exercise. There's an itch
that you're trying to scratch and that
manifests in so many different ways. And
so I've often thought of money, look, is
money the root of society, the core of
society? No. There's obviously a million
things more important than money, but I
do think it's the clearest window that
we can look through to try to figure out
what's going on in our own lives, in
other people's lives, in society. It
shows very starkly what people value,
what they're scared of, what they're
aspiring to become. There are many more
elements to the puzzle. Your health,
your friends, your family. We can go on
that forever. But money is a very clear
window that if you see how somebody
engages with money, you're like, "Oh, I
understand your insecurities. I
understand your aspirations. I
understand your self-confidence. I
understand what you think of other
people. You can learn a lot about that.
>> It's kind of like a reflection of your
your trauma.
>> Yes. And it it manifests in very
different ways. There's a great
financial writer named name named
Tiffany Alish and she's uh she grew up
very very poor and now she's extremely
successful and she calls it
post-traumatic broke syndrome where even
though she has a lot of money right now,
she I I don't want to put words in her
mouth. My understanding is like she's
she's afraid to spend it because she's
the the feeling in her head is I will
never go back to that I can't ever go
back to that poor person post-traumatic
broke. And so it can manifest in very
different sometimes opposite ways. And
so the point is not like if you grew up
poor, you're going to want to display
it. But the point is that it's a
psychological itch. It it's not just I
want the nice car because nice cars are
better. There's a social signaling
you're signaling to others. You're
signaling to yourself. It's a trophy for
yourself of what you've overcome. The
more I dug into it, the more it was so
clear of like spending is not just on
material stuff. It's not just I want to
buy this car or this house or these
clothes or these jewelry because it's
nice. It's I'm trying to send a signal
to others or to myself of what I've
overcome. One of the ways I thought
about this in my own life was if I was
on a deserted island with maybe just
just me and and my family, nobody could
see how we were living. Nobody can see
your house, nobody can see your car,
nobody can see your clothes, nobody can
see your jewelry. How would I live? For
me, and I think most people in that
exercise, you immediately gravitate away
from status and towards utility like I
would not want a Lamborghini. I probably
want like a pickup truck, something that
has like more util if nobody could see
it. I would just want utility. I would
not want an enormous house. I would want
a house with a nice view because I'm not
trying to show off to other people. I
just want something that is calming and
and serene to myself. And so once you
start seeing the stark difference
between utility and status,
once you once you force yourself to see
it, you're like, "Oh, it's everywhere."
>> Is something inherently wrong with
status? Is it wrong to buy a Rolex?
>> Absolutely not. Particularly at certain
points of your life.
>> Okay. So, when when is it good? When is
it bad? When is it in different like
indifferent?
>> I don't know. I don't know. It's hard to
say what's good and bad in terms of a
formula because everybody's different.
But I would say this, my own personal
desire to show off mater,
but the reason why is because I had
nothing else to offer the world. I had
no intelligence. I had no wisdom. I
didn't know how to love anyone. I had
nothing else to offer friends, family,
spouses, whatever it would be. And so
the last remaining lever, if you're
trying to get attention and respect, is
well, look, I have no intelligence to
offer. I have no wisdom to offer. maybe
people will admire me for my car.
>> That was why I wanted it.
>> And now that I I hope in a in I I hope
to today, 20 years later, I have a
little bit more to offer to my wife, to
my friends, to my family, to employers
and customers, whatnot, then my desire
for those things has gone down. Not to
zero, but it's gone down. There's a
great Warren Buffett quote where he
says, "Success in life is when the
people who you want to love you do love
you." And key to that is like you have
to ask the question like who do you want
to love you. And for a lot of people the
quick knee-jerk reaction is everybody.
And so you want to have a nice car, nice
clothes, nice jewelry because you think
everyone's going to stop and stare. When
I drive this down the road, people are
going to be stop and say, "Look at that
guy. Look, look at her. That's amaz
I admire them. I respect them." And by
and large, that is almost never true
because no one's thinking about you as
much as you are. They're not they're not
paying attention to your car or your
clothes or your house. They're busy
worrying about themselves. Jimmy Carr, I
think you've had on the show before. Is
that right?
>> Love Jimmy Carr. He said this a couple
weeks ago, I heard it and it was one of
those I had to stop and write it down
because it was so profound. He said, "In
your 20s, people worry about what other
people think of them. In your 30s, you
say, I don't care what anybody thinks of
me. And in your 40s, you finally
realized a truth, which was nobody was
thinking about you the whole time. They
were busy worrying about themselves. And
look, that's not black and white. Of
course, people think about you and look
at you and sometimes judge you, but not
nearly to the extent that we think. And
that was why I get back to the exercise.
If nobody was watching, how would I
live? The truth is because virtually
nobody is watching except the people who
I really love and admire and they're
gonna admire me for things that have
nothing to do with the kind of car that
I drive or the clothes that I wear.
>> What's the the evolutionary basis for
all of this stuff?
>> Life's a competition. It doesn't matter
how well I'm doing. It matters how well
I'm doing relative to you. It doesn't
matter how big my house is if I'm trying
to signal. All that matters is my house
is bigger than yours. That's true for
all wealth. There's no such thing as you
are wealthy once you have x number of
dollars. That that does not exist.
Everything is relative to other people.
And the truth is like we live in a world
of such material abundance where the
majority of people listening this will
have some sort of shelter and a car and
and can buy can buy clothes and whatnot.
And because relative to a lot of
history, we live in material abundance.
The competition, the arms race for
bigger nicer things is extraordinary.
And it's way more powerful and potent
today than it's ever been for two
reasons. One is social media. So I am
now aware of the homes that other people
live in, the cars that they drive, the
clothes that the vacations that they
take. I'm now aware of it in a way that
we were not 15 years ago. The other
thing is because the internet has
democratized
access to audience and attention. The
ability to become extremely rich is much
more powerful than it's ever been. It's
still rare, of course, but it's it's
easier today than it's ever been to
become very very wealthy, even if only a
small number of people are doing it
because your your potential customer
base is now the entire world. You know,
a 100 years ago, if I was a businessman,
my customer base was whoever lived in my
town.
>> Now, if you're a businessman, your
customer base can be the entire world.
And so, it's easier to make a huge
fortune. And because of social media,
once you make that fortune, people are
probably going to know about it because
a lot of those people who become very
rich are going to say, "Look at how I'm
living." And so you have this like
trickle down aspiration of everyone else
being like my definition of wealthy. If
you're a young person today,
>> a young person's definition of wealthy
might be a multi-billionaire with a
private jet and a private island where I
think 80 years ago people's definition
of wealthy was a three-bedroom house and
one car and and a and a happy family.
And so we live in a world where like
aspirations have inflated by such a
dramatic degree that the arms race of
spending just gets that much that much
higher.
>> I think there's something in this idea
that you almost have to develop the
skill of disconnecting your admiration
from your aspirations if you want to
live a good life because so many kids
will like look up to you and say I want
to be like Morgan when I'm older. um
because they admire what you've done,
but the reality is they they're just
seeing the sort of shop window. Yeah.
>> Of your life. And so I people do this
with Elon all the time,
>> right? And Elon has even said he's like,
"You might think you want to be me, but
you you don't."
>> And he the clip where he did that, he
pointed his head and he's like, "It's a
it's a tornado up here." And I think
that's true that for most people who are
extremely successful, who are the ones
that people tend to to look up to, like
the extreme outlier successes, a lot of
the reason they're so successful
financially and in their career is
because they've devoted every second of
their life to that career,
>> which most of the time comes at the
expense of everything else. So they are
very successful, made a lot of money,
and that came at the expense of their
health, their relationships,
relationships with their their spouses,
their children. So I make the point in
the book that of the top 10 richest men
in the world there are a cumulative 13
divorces among the top 10 richest people
>> and it's a small sample size like you
can't really you know say that that that
much with that but this is a group that
is almost universally admired
particularly among young men you know
Elon Musk Jeff Bezos Mark Zuckerberg how
how amazing would it be to have that
much money but if you dig into their
actual the the their whole life
>> not just their net worth not just the
house and the jet that they have but if
you look at holistically their entire
life, you're like, I don't know. It's
it's it's it's not that great. It's it's
one thing to admire someone if you can
pick bits and pieces. I want I want his
house and her car and his career and his
physique, but you can't pick bits and
pieces. You have to take the whole
thing. And once you take the whole
thing, you realize that like a lot of
the people who you may have been looking
up to either did not have a better life
than you did or it was just marginally
better in a way that was easy to
overlook. I had this conversation with a
girl in New York last week. It was a
shoot, a client, like a brand shoot, and
she sat me down to interview me for
TikTok. And she said, um, she goes,
"What age did you become a millionaire?"
And I said, "About 24, 25." And she
went, "Oh, I'm 24, 25 now, and I'm not a
millionaire." And I remember saying to
her, I was like, "Yeah, but would you
would you take my trade?"
>> And I explained to her, I was like, "So,
I was lonely between the age of 18 and
roughly 20. I was working in call
centers. My parents wouldn't speak to
me. So I had no contact with my family
really um for through that period and
then I started shoplifting at about 18
19 to feed myself and my brother had
given me this big um sort of industrial
packet of oats and what I had to do is
it's like powder I mix the powder with
water and there's there's there's a
photo online I think from my previous
TED talk my first one where I was just
drinking this this powdered water. So I
said to her, I said, and I was a
millionaire at 24, lonely, not speaking
to my family, drinking powder do
shoplifting, working night shifts in
multiple call centers. Would you take
the trade? And she went, "No."
>> She said, "Absolutely not." She wouldn't
take the trade. And I said, "So you
can't you can't pick it apart because I
if you want to my outcome, you have to
take the path that I took if you want my
specific outcome." And people don't
think about that. Like one of the things
this podcast has actually taught me is
to think through the framework of
trade-offs. Yeah.
>> So, think about everything as a
trade-off. Think of a Zmpeek as a
trade-off. There's a trade you're making
somewhere. And even, you know, when you
aspire, you admire people. If you admire
what we've done here, for example, think
about the trade-off. Like, even with
this team, the team have been working
here every single day, including the
weekends from morning till night for the
last 14 days here in New York. Every
single day.
>> Right.
>> Do you want to do you want to do you
want a podcast? Like,
>> do you want the trade? And if you do,
fine. But just be informed about, as you
say, both sides of the trade.
>> Another Jimmy Carr quote that I love,
he's a profound individual. Not only is
he hilarious, he's very smart. The quote
is, "Everyone is jealous of what you've
got. Nobody's jealous of how you got
it."
>> Yeah.
>> And I think it's just so easy to
overlook. One of the things I write in
the book is what's called the reverse
obituary, which is it's a very good
helpful exercise to write down. It's
kind of morbid, but what do you want
your obituary to say? kind of a weird
thing, but for me, everyone's different,
but for me, I would want it to say
Morgan was a good father, a good
husband, a good friend, helped his
community, was a good worker. That's
what I would want it to say. Never in a
million years in that obituary would I
want it to say what my income was, how
big my house was, how many times I went
on vacation, how many horsepower my car
had. Like, it's ridiculous to think that
that's what it would be. I would want
it. You instantly drift towards the
things that you know you're actually you
actually want in life. And of course,
it's going to be different for everyone,
but I I I found it a helpful thing
because you realize that it would be
completely absurd to put the things that
I might be chasing in my life in my
obituary. And so if in any given day, in
any given year, you're like, I got to
earn a higher income and I want to buy a
bigger house and I got to need a new car
and all you see, they came out with this
watch. But at the end of your life, you
know, that's not going to matter. What's
going to matter is were you a good
spouse, a good parent, a good worker,
were you honest? Were you a good friend?
Were you funny? That's you know that's
what's going to matter because that's
what you want in your obituary.
>> I think part of the reason people spend
in the way that they do as well is
linked to that which is sometimes that
behavior which is also linked to the
point about trauma at the start might
result in a savings addiction. I often
wonder this cuz you know when I was
younger I had this crazy spending
problem. And I've also seen people who
don't seem to spend anything and they're
just like hoarding capital. You talk
about this a bit in the book. Like what
>> is that equally bad behavior?
>> Yeah, I think it's equally bad because
both of them are the exact same thing
which is money's controlling you. Money
should be a tool that you use to become
a better version of yourself to become a
happier, more content version of
yourself. But when it's controlling your
personality, it's it's it's no different
than like any any other addiction where
you don't it's forcing you to do things
that you otherwise don't want to do. And
that can manifest on either end of the
side. Either people can't stop spending
or they cannot spend enough. A lot of
financial adviserss will tell you one of
the biggest problems that they have are
clients who have saved enough money for
retirement. Good job. You saved for 40
years. You maxed out your 401k. did
everything you were supposed to and now
you're 70 years old and you have enough
money to travel and play golf and you
won't you won't do it. And I think it's
because they become so accustomed to the
identity of I'm a saver. Every month I
save and every month my net worth goes
up and they cannot bring themselves into
switching gears and going in the other
direction. And for a lot of those
people, the money is in full control
over their identity. It's telling them
how to live, what to like, what to
aspire to, what to enjoy. the money is
totally in control of their personality
and and it's it's just as dangerous and
just as just as detrimental as you when
you were a teenager of I can't stop
spending. It's and both of those are in
are they the money is like playing the
marionette doll of your life. It's
telling you exactly what to do and when
to do it.
>> If I wanted to make a framework to know
how to spend my money, where do I start?
Do I have to get clear on something? Do
I, you know, and I guess the other
question which is somewhat linked to
this is this overarching debate around
can money make you happy,
>> right? But I'm trying to figure out like
where do I start because I I want to one
of the things I want to get out of today
is I want to have a a clearer framework
for how to spend my money.
>> Well, those two points that you just
brought up, I think are very related.
The first on the point of can money make
you happier? The answer is yes, but
there's a there's a there's an asterisk
next to it that we need to get to. For
years, there was a big academic debate
of does more money make you happy? A lot
of some of the studies showed yes,
clearly it does. Others show studies
showed no, it really doesn't. and the
academics, the economists were like
battling for decades. It's kind of been
cleared up in the last just the last
couple of years, this last couple of
decades with some nuance, which is this.
If you are already an unhappy person, if
you're already anxious, if you're
already depressed, by and large, having
more money will not help you at least
that much. It might help you a little
bit around the margins. If you're if you
start as an unhappy, depressed, anxious
person. If you are already a happy,
content, joyful, laughing person, having
more money will give you a better life.
So in either direction, it's just
leveraging who you already were. It's
not going to change you that much. It's
just going to leverage who you already
were. Very similar to like they say this
about power. Like once you gain power in
politics or something, it just leverages
the personality that you already had.
>> Money is very much like that. And so
it's it's not a a a panacea in the sense
of like oh like if if you're miserable
like if you had more money it's going to
clear up your problems. It can make some
of your problems a little bit easier to
deal with. But I mean think about it in
these stark terms. Let's say you are
overweight and unhappy. You hate your
job and you're recently divorced and
your kids won't talk to you but you live
in a mansion that has a Ferrari in the
driveway and you got all kinds of fancy
stuff. Is is is that a good life? If all
if everything else in your life sucked
and you woke up every morning going,
"Ah, I got to go to work today. I hate
my job. I can't stand my job. I'm I'm
lonely. I'm miserable. I'm overweight. I
can't sleep. I'm addicted to alcohol."
Whatever it might be. Of course, it's a
terrible life. The house in the car
don't matter at all. But you can flip
that around and say like, let's say you
live in a very modest middle class house
and you drive a a 10-year-old Honda
Civic, but you love your job. You love
your co-workers. You have a great
relationship with your spouse. Your kids
admire you. You have your friends over
for a barbecue every Friday night.
Materially, it's very modest. You have
what you need. You're not impoverished.
You're not homeless. You have the food
that you want and the shelter that you
want. But you would be an absolute
maniac to choose the miserable person in
the mansion versus the content, happy
person in the middle house. If your goal
is to live a good life, it's psychotic
to pick one of one over the other. I
felt this quite starkly recently because
I flew to Cape Town on my own. Um I've
only ever been there with my girlfriend
and with other friends and the first
time I've only been there a few times.
I've got a house there and it's a very
big house and the first time I came with
was with my family. Second time it's
with my girlfriend and my friends. This
time I came on my own
>> and I felt this deep existential feeling
waking up walking through that house
alone thinking [ __ ] me.
It was so clear to me that the point of
such a such a thing is to fill it with
people and you say
>> that's what I I make this point in the
book of like the very simple question
will a big house make you happier?
>> I think it will make you depressed if
it's empty
>> because that's how I felt. I was like
I'd rather be in a studio apartment
alone than a big house on my own.
>> Right. I had a similar realization to
you a couple years ago when I took my my
my my family and I went to Maui for a
vacation and I love Maui. It's my
favorite place in the world. And now I
have kids. So I'm building sand castles
with my kids on the beach in Maui. And
that I remember thinking like this is
this is a 10 out of 10. This is like
this is peak life for me. Building sand
castles with my kids. Everyone's happy
in the sun.
>> But then I had this realization of like
if that's a 10.
>> Playing with Legos at home on the living
room floor with my kids is like a nine.
Like it's really close because
realization was what I enjoy is like
quality time with my kids. And I think a
lot of the reason that people like
vacate, like travel is not because they
like getting on an airplane and flying
around the world and being jet-lagged
and cramped into a small hotel. What
they like is uninterrupted time away
from work, away from all the other
stresses of everyday life. That's what
they actually enjoy. That's what they
like, travel. It's not necessarily the
location. It's like what the location is
doing for you. So the question of will a
big house make you happier? It will to
the extent that it makes it easier to
have your friends and family over
>> because your friends and family are the
ones who are actually making you happy.
>> And so the answer can be can will a will
a nice house make you happy? The answer
can be yes if you're using it for the
right reasons. There was this article in
the New York Times, this is probably 10
or 15 years ago and uh the article said
two things happened to Julia Roberts
this week. One, she won the Academy
Award and two she found out her husband
was cheating on her. And so the column
said, "Pop quiz, did Julia Roberts have
a good week?" And it's like, you'd be a
fool to say yes. It was probably the
worst week of her life, I imagine.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, but what we see from the outside was
doled up in a beautiful dress, accepting
the highest honor of her career and
saying like, "Wow, that must be
amazing." But it gets back to once you
see the full picture, you're like, "Nah,
it's not as easy as it seems."
>> You say on page 23 of your book, a quote
that I loved, "Show off the inside of
your house, not the outside."
>> Right.
because the inside of your house are
what your friends and your family are
seeing.
>> Is there like a a hack here? Like is
there, you know, because you have all
these like internet communities that
come up with these like hacks, these
other ways to live. They they they step
outside of the matrix and they form
their own little their own little cult
that are like doing it differently and
not not abiding by the rules of the the
quote unquote matrix. I very much feel
like most of us are trapped in the
matrix. We're trapped in this like
status game competing against each
other, not not searching for happiness.
like what is the the hack here? How do I
get out the matrix and what does that
look like?
>> I think if there is a formula that I I
lay out in the book and I I make the
point that like there there's no formula
for how to spend money. But if I did try
to make a formula for a pretty good life
and this extends way outside of money.
The formula for a pretty good life is
independence plus purpose. If you want
to say like how how can I be a happy
person? You need to be independent. You
need to be able to do what you want to
do when you want to do it with whom you
want to do it with. And you need some
kind of purpose that is higher than
yourself. And that could be a million
different things. It could be friends,
it could be family, it could be career,
it could be religion, whatever it might
be. I think it is very difficult to
imagine anyone having a good life
without those two things. If your entire
life and your schedule is dictated by
somebody else of you have to go to this
job that you don't like, you have to
have a long commute that you don't like,
you have to do this when you don't want
to do it, it's it's hard to be happy.
And if you don't have any kind of
purpose that you're doing it for, it's
difficult to be happy. And so the idea
that to me, the best thing to spend
money on is independence. And I view it
as purchasing. I I don't view it as
saving money. I view it as purchasing
independence. That's how I I view I view
like I'm buying independence when I
save. And so to me, the biggest thing
that I spend my money on, and this
sounds weird, but I is saving. And I
view that as buying independence. I view
that as every dollar that I save is a
little bit more independent than I was
before. It's a little bit of my future
that I now own and control. And if if
you're listening to this and you're
like, "Look, I'm not financially
independent. I have no I have no
possibility of being financially
independent." Independence exists on a
spectrum. And literally every dollar
that you save is a little bit more
independent than you were before. If you
have a $100 in the bank in savings, that
can make it so that if you were to lose
your job, you have a little bit more
flexibility for rent or groceries or
whatever it might be that you didn't
before. $1,000, $10,000, any amount that
you have is a little bit more
independent than you were before. And so
when you view
one of the cores of living a good life
as independence and any amount of saving
money will buy you independence, I think
that's a powerful observation for
people. And then the purpose part is
going to be different for everyone. For
me right now in my life, it's being a
good father. That's what I want my end
my identity to be. That's my overarching
goal in life is to be a good dad. I I
think the vast majority of parents will
tell you that there was no greater joy,
purpose than watching their kids thrive.
Can also bring a lot of sorrow and a lot
of sleepless nights and a lot of anxiety
and a lot of worry that comes along with
it. But nothing that I've experienced or
any of the other parents that I know
would would say that anything in their
life has come before that that it's been
a great thing. So we got on this point
because the formula is independence plus
purpose. For me the purpose is being a
parent. That's not going to be true for
everyone.
>> But you're trading independence for
that.
>> I'm trading it's internal independence
that I'm giving up. I want to sacrifice
for my kids. I want to like loyalty to
people who deserve your loyalty is a
wonderful thing. Loyalty to people who
don't deserve your loyalty sucks. And so
if you are working, if you're giving
your loyalty to a company that doesn't
respect you, that sucks. That's
terrible. Loyalty to people who deserve
it is a very fulfilling thing. So my
kids deserve my loyalty.
>> How did they earn that loyalty?
>> Just by being my kids. And there's some
days where I feel like they they don't
appreciate it, of course. But I I think
that tends to be true. People get into
problems when they are loyal to people
or organizations or political
affiliations who don't deserve the
loyalty. That's when it gets dangerous.
>> Do you think the promise of independence
and freedom has a secret hidden dark
trade-off that people don't talk about?
Because there's this culture right now
of like, you know, be your own boss and
stand on your own two feet. And when you
think about what makes humans happy, it
seems to be collective things. It seems
to be actually in your case, as you were
saying, dependence. Your kids depend on
you. In some ways, you depend on them.
All the things that seem to like having
my friends at my house made me happier
than being in the house alone,
>> right? But the nar the public narrative
is all about like optimizing for
freedom, whatever that means. And really
more so optimizing for independence, not
depending on someone else. But when you
look at the people that seem to be the
most unhappy, they seem to be the most
independent,
>> right? because they're they if you
picture someone like living in a by
themselves in the middle of Montana with
no one around them or whatever it might
>> be no family, no pets, freelance work on
a laptop on their own in a in a glass
box in Dubai. Um no no big obligations,
not not in a church.
>> But back to the formula, independence
plus purpose. Most people have no
purpose.
>> Oh yes.
>> So I think it's I think yes, everyone is
going to be I'm I'm dependent on my
wife, my kids. you know, there is
dependency there, but I'm I'm choosing I
chose her as a spouse. I chose to have
kids and so I I still did it on my
terms. And so, you're never going to be
or I think you don't want to be a 100%
independent in the sense that you don't
rely on anyone and no one relies on you
because then you have no purpose.
>> It's choosing who you want. I think it's
I think you're not independent if you
have to be loyal to a job that you hate,
but you have to have it because it's the
only job you got and you and you have to
do it and you're you you have to pay
this exorbitant rent on an apartment
that you don't even enjoy that much.
Like those are dependence on things that
you don't want, but like I want to be
dependent on my family because that
gives me purpose.
>> It's like the independence to make the
choice, I guess.
>> To make the choice of who you're going
to be dependent on, right?
>> Got you. And on this earlier point, you
were talking about saving um and that
you your favorite form of spending is
saving.
>> Yeah.
>> Someone's listening now, how much money
do you think they should at a minimum
have saved?
>> If you try to get technical about it, I
would say what are the odds that at some
point in your life, you're going to lose
your job and not be able to find another
job for six months. The odds are not bad
that that will happen to you at some
point. Not very comfortable to think
about. Maybe it's already happened to
you already, but the odds that at some
point that will happen are pretty good.
And therefore, if you were to say like,
look, a good measure of
some level of higherend independence,
not a low level of independence, but
like a a medium level of independence is
six is is I could keep myself going for
six months. Now, for a lot of people,
that's a daunting task. And I it's okay.
You're probably not going to achieve
that when you're 18. Am I it's going to
take some savings to get there, but that
is a level at which you can exhale to a
degree that most people have never been
able to do before of like there's going
to be some bad stuff happening in your
life. It's going to be uncomfortable,
but it's going to be okay. And for for
for most people, for most of history, it
was there's bad things going to happen
to you and you're not going to be okay.
It's going to be very traumatic. And and
one of the important things there is
when you lose that job, the ability to
go find a good job, even a better job
where you want doing what you want with
the people who you like working with is
very important. If you don't have any
savings, you're going to have to by
default pick the very first job that you
can come across, even if it's a terrible
job in a location that you hate, doing
something you hate, working with people
you don't like. And so the flexibility
to give yourself time to find a job that
is a little bit easier and better for
you, that is the purpose of savings.
>> And that goes back to your point about
independence, which is you want to
building up those savings is building up
the independence or the freedom to make
a choice about who you work with,
>> right?
>> If the worst were to happen, you don't
have to necessarily go get a job at, you
know, some awful place,
>> some some terrible place. You talk about
jealousy in the book as well and um I
was reading some stats that quite funny
stats but they they say that essentially
that if you're if you win the lottery
the probability of your neighbor going
bankrupt increases.
>> It's an amazing statistic, right?
>> So what's what's happening there?
>> Well, you're looking at your neighbor
who won the lottery and your neighbors
probably bought a vacation house, bought
a new car, sending their kids to private
school, whatever it might be. and you
watching that are like, I need that for
myself. It's it's unfair that they have
it and I don't and I'm gonna go do any
reckless financial decision to get that.
So much of what we think is is normal.
Our definition of success is what other
people around us have. And so if you are
watching your neighbor live a better
life than you, then all a sudden your
definition of a good life is what
they're doing. And you will do some
reckless things to get it. I think
that's that's what happens. And so one
of the takeaways there is like be
careful who you socialize with because
you're going to anchor to them as a
baseline level of success and happiness.
Be very careful with what you do and who
you look up to and who you aspire to. I
grew up in Lake Tahoe, California, and
this was before tech money when it was
not a wealthy area. it is now because
all the tech money from San Francisco
came up. But Tahoe in the 90s and early
2000s was was just a out in the woods
and you know you could buy a house for
nothing and most people in town didn't
have any money. And then I went to
college in Los Angeles where there is a
lot of wealth there are high
expectations and there are Lamborghinis
and Rolls-Royces and whatnot. And one of
my observations was people were happier
in Tahoe. And I think the reason why is
because the definition of success in
Tahoe back then was a two-bedroom house
and a pickup truck.
>> That was success. In Los Angeles, the
definition of success was a mansion and
a and a Bentley.
>> And so it was just it was easier for
people in Tahoe to be like, I'm good. I
I check the boxes. Like look, I'm
successful. Look at look at my tiny
little house and my beat up pickup
truck. That's success, right? And so
that was like be careful who you
socialize with because you're going to
anchor to their level of success. I have
a some graphs in front of you there. Um
I think one of them is the spectrum of
financial independence.
>> Yeah.
>> Could you explain to me what that is and
and how how that's useful to understand
and why that's useful to understand?
>> I think it's I had this friend uh 10 or
10 or 20 years ago and he said, "I don't
save any money because I don't see the
purpose. All I'd be able to save is a
hundred bucks a month and what's that
going to do for me?" And since I don't
think it's going to do anything for me,
I I might as well just go spend it. And
I remember thinking, no, no, that's like
$100 in savings or if you do it for a
year, $1,200 in savings is $1,200 more
independence than you had before. And
again, not if, but when you lose your
job or your car breaks down, you're
going to realize how unbelievably
valuable that money is. And it's not
savings, it's independence that it's
giving you. So the idea that
independence is on a spectrum. It is not
you either don't have to work or you
have to work. It's not that stark, but
most people think of it in those terms.
Why would I try to become independent if
I have no chance of not working?
>> And the simple way to view it is every
dollar that you save is a piece of your
future that you own, that you control,
that is yours. The flip side of that is
like every dollar of debt that you have
is a piece of your future that somebody
else controls. It's a it's a moment in
time in the future that is not yours. It
belongs to somebody else. And so I've
always viewed it on a spectrum. When I
was younger and much poorer, I was a big
saver. Even though like was I
independent? Like no. Of course I had to
work. I had to work to pay my rent and
pay my groceries. Of course. But I
viewed it as like every $20 that I
saved, every $50 that I saved put me in
a better position than I was before. And
looking back on it, I I don't think I
could have articulated that 20 years
ago, but it's what I felt. A lot of that
for me back then was coming from a place
of fear. I didn't have a lot of
self-confidence in myself, in my career.
So, I was like, I need to save to
prepare for when this all comes crashing
down. Mhm.
>> And even though it didn't come crashing
down, I'm so glad that I did it cuz I'
I've had a sense of financial security
and I've had a sense of independence
financially since I was in my early 20s.
Not because I had saved a ton, I hadn't,
but any amount that I saved, I I viewed
as like the cushion that that gave me a
much higher sense of confidence that if
or when things go wrong, I'm not going
to be flailing. I'm going to have some
cushion to fall back on. And what is
this this spectrum? Uh what are the
stages of this spectrum?
>> So let's start at the very bottom.
You're homeless. You're panhandling.
Reliant on the kindness of strangers. As
you go up from there, you can be
completely reliant on your boss in a job
that you don't like. Now that's that's
that's a that's another low level. As
you go up from there, you have look, I
am I'm relying on my job. I'm relying on
my on my paycheck, but I probably have
some opportunities. I could go work at
another job. I could I could choose to
work here. I could choose to work there.
And then you go up from there. It's
like, yo, I I like my job and I have
some savings. So, if I lost this job, I
can fall back onto it from there. You
can go up from there to have you can
live where you want. You can work where
you want. You can change fields. You can
you can go and you can do a completely
different job. You can take two months
off and travel if you wanted to. Like,
you're working your way up all the way
to the highest level of financial
independence, which is I don't need to
work anymore. I've saved enough and I
can I can I can wake up every morning
and do whatever I would like to do.
That's obviously an aspiration that for
most people will never be reached until
they're maybe in their, you know, 70s
and they're retiring and they have
social security and some other savings
from there. But for most people, like a
good level of independence as a good
goal is enough savings so that if you
lost your job, if your car broke down,
if you needed to replace the roof on
your house, you would be able to do it
without losing that much sleep. That is
a realistic level that I think almost
anyone can achieve. based on everything
you know about money if I want to get to
that highest level of complete financial
freedom, what what what's like the the
five things that I should be thinking
about at just a sort of a very simple
level. You know, cuz so many people
listening right now think, you know, my
goal in life isn't to become a
billionaire or a tens of millionaire. My
goal in life is just to get to that
point of freedom as soon as I can
>> where I can start calling the shots. And
there's there was someone who I was
speaking to the other day and said that
there's this internet movement of kids
who are trying to get what do they call
it it's like they're trying to get to
the point where they can retire early
fire something
>> financial independence retire early that
>> y
>> like how do I get how do I get there
>> the first thing that I think that's most
important this is the first and the last
thing this is the most important part is
that all wealth your feeling of wealth
is what you have minus what you want and
it's so easy to ignore the latter
matter. I talk about in the book my my
late grandmother-in-law, my wife's
grandmother, passed away a couple years
ago. For 30 years, she lived off of
nothing but 17 or $1,800 a month in
social security. Not a lot of money. By
most accounts, very little money. But
she didn't want anything more. She did.
She if she made $1,700 a month, she did
not want $1,700 in one and $1. She was
perfectly happy. She she found all of
her happiness working in her garden,
going for walks, watching the birds,
watching the sunrise, watching the
sunset, talking to her friends, hanging
out with her family. But if you asked
her, you said, "You only make $700 a
month. You're broke. Doesn't that make
you unhappy?" She'd be like, "What?"
Like, "Do you think having more money
makes the sunset more beautiful? Do you
think having more money makes going for
a walk more pleasant?" And I'm not
saying you should live like you should
be content with that amount of money,
but the point is like she was content.
She was totally content. And it was her
choice. And I think she was happier
financially than some billionaires
because there's a lot of billionaires
who have a billion dollars but they want
two. They have two billion but they want
four. One of the things is that
happiness might be the wrong word here.
The word that people want is content.
When you sit here and daydream about
having the bigger mansion, what you're
actually doing is you're imagining
yourself in the mansion being content
with it. You imagine yourself sitting in
that house and saying, "I don't want
anything more than this." The feeling
that we are aspiring to is just being
content. Happiness is always like a 30-
secondond emotion. It's like laughter.
Like if I tell you a funny joke, you'll
laugh for 30 seconds and then and it's
over. Like very few times in life are
you happy for more than a couple minutes
at a time. But what you want that is
like a durable emotion is being content.
Just saying like I'm good. I'm good with
this. I don't want anything more.
>> I interviewed Dr. to Anna LMK and she's
like the the uh the scientist who's most
uh renowned for talking about and
writing about dopamine.
>> Yeah.
>> And I was wondering how much do the
molecule dopamine dovetailes into this
because I think one of the things she
said to me was that dopamine is the
chemical for wanting.
>> Yeah.
>> And people have I think mistaken it for
being the the pleasure
>> happiness. Yeah. Happiness.
>> It's it's more more. It's like you want
more. And she told me this crazy study
about this rat where they removed the
dopamine receptor from its brain so it
couldn't produce dopamine and then they
put food 2 in from its mouth and the rat
starved to death because it it it and in
that I've always thought about that is
like okay so that's what dopamine is.
It's the motivation to go get to go get
to want to pursue. What role is dopamine
playing here?
>> It's huge and that's actually a good
realization to be like a lot of this is
not something you can solve on a
spreadsheet. It's not something you can
solve with a formula. It's chemicals in
your brain. And obviously some people
are going to be more susceptible to that
than others. I think my
grandmother-in-law
just had for whatever it was was was
wired differently than most people. Part
of that was like she was a product of
the Great Depress. She grew up during
the Great Depression which probably like
lowered her expectations. She never had
social media and whatnot. But of course,
I think some people are wired
differently than others for a level of
contentment. But I think just there's a
big thing in psychiatry where diagnosing
a mental illness is sometimes more
important than the treatment. If you
just get a diagnosis of like, oh, you're
ADHD, whatever it is, just knowing just
like the the fact that you can stop
questioning, why am I having these
thoughts? You can you can understand why
you have those thoughts is more
important than the treatment sometimes.
And I think that's true here. If if you
it's easier said than done to completely
control your desires, but just knowing
why you're doing it and realizing that
it's probably not going to give you the
happiness that you want, that it's just
like any addiction that the more you
chase it, the further away it's going to
get,
>> can go a big ways. And so for me myself,
there's all the time there are moments
where I'm like, "Oh, I I should I I
should get that car. Maybe I should get
a bigger house." I have those feelings
daily. So the feelings don't go away.
But I think I'm better now than I've
been in the past at reminding myself of
like it's not going to make you happier.
You know that. You've tried this before.
You've tried it before and it didn't
make you happy. What is going to make
you happy is spending time with your
kids, having a good relationship with
your wife and your own physical health
and laughing with your friends and
having good times with people who you
enjoy. You know that's going to make you
happy and you know that's not. And I
have to remind myself because it's not
intuitive. And I have dopamine that
tells me you should want more and more
more and more. So, you never get over
it, but I think once you've diagnosed
the problem, it becomes easier at just
like spotting that emotion and realizing
that it's telling you a story that's
probably not true.
>> I wonder if you I could trade the
addiction cuz you, you know, you
referred to it there as being an
addiction. If it's a dopamine equation,
could I not shift my addiction to
something more productive? And would
that mean that my spending would get
better? So actually when I think about
me as 18 years old and having that
horrific spending problem, maybe I just
shifted the the thing that gave me
dopamine to like building businesses or
to podcasting or to writing books or to
being a great dad. I don't know. Do you
know?
>> I think it's probably true that
everybody without exception is addicted
to something and it's just harnessing
that that process for whatever it might
be. So some people are addicted to my
wife's addicted to gardening, let's say.
She she couldn't care less about about
investing or spending money on a nice
she could not care less about her car or
my car or your car. But if you have a
good gardener, if you you have a pretty
garden, she's she's all over this. So
everybody's got their thing and it's
just like can you harness that for
productivity?
>> I think a lot of like extremely
successful people are people who took
their their natural addiction and
harnessed it for productivity into their
business.
>> And that's that's why they're so
successful. this became obsessed with
one thing and it's it's a good question
of whether we can actually guide that
addiction or if it's just kind of
pre-wired in itself. I think it's true
for myself, someone who's written books
about money for 20 years, thought about
money for 20 years. My mom tells a story
that when I was three, I would sit there
and count pennies. I don't want to count
seashells. I don't want to count cards.
I don't want to count rocks. I want to
count money. And so I think I've always
had this disposition towards being
fascinated with money.
>> Why?
>> I don't know. Because I did it when I
was three. I did it before I could even
think through it. But I think everyone
has their little thing. It's always been
fascinating to me. I don't think I'm
obsessed with money. I don't think it
controls my life. But I've had to go out
of my way to have a a healthier
relationship with it. But I think it's
definitely been true that the reason
that I've found myself in this career is
that it's always been my thing. And I
think everybody has that thing in their
life. You know, people talk about
addictive personalities and uh I was
reflecting one of my best friends who
was an alcoholic, had a problem with
gambling, then had a problem with
eating, then got obsessed with marathons
and he he traded each one of those
things for the next thing. So now he's
like obsessed with health and fitness.
And so I was when I was thinking about
people that are struggling with money
problems and even my own historical
strugg struggle with money, I I think I
probably just traded it for something.
And actually, I'm kind of happy about
that because I traded it for a better
addiction, one that was productive.
>> Your career?
>> My career and um
>> I guess doing this I'm pretty addicted
to doing this,
>> right? And but I think
>> makes me happier than the plasma screen.
>> It's exactly. Yeah.
>> I think what's true about a money
addiction is that it tends to be the
classic addiction of like you tell
yourself if only I get one more hit, so
to speak, then I'll be satiated. Then
then then that'll be enough. And the
answer is like no, it absolutely will
not. I'll tell you like a a personal
thing. I don't think this is true, but
it made me laugh. My wife and I bought a
new house about a year ago. It's an
awesome house. We love it. It's great.
And my brother-in-law came over the
other day and he goes, "You know, you're
only going to live here for 2 years
before you want to buy a bigger house."
And I had to laugh cuz I'm like, "God,
like I I I don't think that's true. I
think we're going to live here for a
while, but I know what you're saying is
right. That's the natural guide towards
it." that when we bought the house, it
was like, "Oh, this is going to be so
great. Can you imagine? We're going to
get to do this and get to do that and we
have these neighbors and whatnot and you
become accustomed to that very quickly
and then your gaze shifts a little bit
higher. You're like, "Yeah, but look at
that house over there. That one's nicer,
isn't it?" That's always the natural
thing. And that's dopamine at work. That
is dopamine purely at work. Because the
truth is our previous house was was
great. And our previous house used to be
our dream. And and dopamine exists when
there's a when there's a gap between
where you are and where you want to be
with something. And when that gap
closes, they often refer to that as the
arrival fallacy.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> Which is a really kind of what you're
describing.
>> You tell yourself once I get there, then
I'll be then I'll be good. Then that's
enough. And it's a fallacy because you
know that's not true. As soon as you get
to that whatever that mountain top is,
there's another mountain above it. It
pushes you in a way that is not easy.
Like nobody should pretend that you can
just go do this today. But it pushes you
into appreciating what you have now and
finding your joy, finding your happiness
through other things that don't have the
arrival fallacy. Never have as I as a
parent have I said, "Oh, if only I had
one more kid." Then then then that would
be great. There's no there's really no
arrival fallacy for kids. You just kind
of be like this. Like I I I just
appreciate being around you. I just
appreciate all the and if if anything,
it's the opposite. It's you look back
and you're like, "Oh, I I I miss when
you were younger." It was like, "Oh, I
it's it's sad how fast you're growing
up." If if anything, rather than like
looking ahead and being like, "Oh, it's
going to be better then." You're looking
back and you're like, "Ah, I wish I had
appreciated that phase a little bit
more."
>> When you talked about um one of the ways
to get to early retirement and to live a
better life is to want what you have
um and basically want less things. I go
back and forward a lot with this idea
because there's like the monks who say
that like happiness is not wanting
something and then there's like the
reality of life where striving for
things seems to make me happy and
everybody describes the journey as being
the most enjoyable part.
>> That's your purpose.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So like what what how do how
do I make sense of this that like the
monks are telling me that not to want
anything cuz that's going to make me
frustrated and unsatisfied and then my
lived experience is striving for things
with a group of people makes me seems to
make me happy.
>> I think there's a there's a difference.
It's a subtle difference but between
pursuing something that you genuinely
enjoy doing which for you is this and
your your business and whatnot
>> versus being addicted to something that
chasing something that you don't have
yet. And so I imagine, you can correct
me if I'm wrong, but I imagine when
you're doing this, you don't tell
yourself, I need to work harder so that
one day the podcast can be up here.
>> I I imagine, tell me if I'm wrong, but I
imagine you come to work every day and
you're like, I I like doing this today.
I like today. I liked yesterday. I'm
going to like tomorrow. And so you're
not chasing a false goal. You just
actually enjoy doing it. Do
>> you know what? It's a weird thing
because it's it's uh I'm going to be
honest because it's the only useful
position to take. It's it's a weird
combination of both. So I say like it's
important for us to have some like goal
>> but also live in the in in the total
understanding that the goal doesn't
actually matter. Right.
>> And it's this weird dichotomy I live in
was like if we become the biggest
podcast in the world
>> like set that as a goal because it gives
us something to
>> chase. I get that
>> KPI and then like put time frames
against and get excited by and focus on
>> but then also living in the total
realization that it's not going to
matter at all. Nothing is going to
change in my life. Zilch. What am I
going to get? A better black shirt. It's
like you know you know what I mean?
>> But here's the truth. The reason that we
live in a world with a ton of technology
and a ton of great businesses and great
medicine, whatnot, is because virtually
everybody for all of human history has
woken up every morning and said, "It's
not enough. I need more." That's the
fuel of progress. And I don't want to
live in a world where everyone wakes up
and says, "I have all I need." Because
then progress would stop that day. We
probably start declining that day. And
so there is a paradox here of like as a
whole society
>> I'm grateful and you should be grateful
that people wake up unfulfilled
>> because we live in a way better world
today than existed 100 or 200 years ago
because of that.
>> And the richest people in the world who
I think are by and large tortured
psychologically
have created amazing technology that you
and I benefit from. And the reason we're
doing this podcast is because people
before us who were way wealthier than
you and I woke up in the morning and
said this is not enough. Bill Gates,
Jeff Bezos, all those people, Elon Musk,
Mark Zuckerberg, they woke up and said I
don't care if I have a hundred billion
dollars. It's not enough. I need I need
to create better technology and that's
great. We benefit from that. And so
there is a paradox here that what is all
and that will never change. That will
never change. So there's a paradox that
like the more the better society
becomes. I think like it's always going
to be the case that as a whole society
we're going to have a level of angst and
anxiety and not be satisfied and say
it's not enough. At the individual level
though I think you can recognize that
game and contextualize it with your own
life and say like look
I want more money. I I want to sell more
books and have a better career. I want
to save more money. I also have to go so
far out of my way to put it into context
and say none of it's going to matter
unless I have a higher purpose beyond
that money. So I think you can aspire
for more and still go out of your way to
realize what the expectations game is.
Even if you can't perfectly control it,
it's similar to like I want to eat a
good diet. Of course I want to eat
healthy food. I'm not going to pretend
for a second that I don't want Oreos and
ice cream because they're great and
they're always going to taste great. And
so I'm never going to get to a point
where I say, "I don't want a nicer
house." I'm I'm a human and and so are
you and so is everyone else. You're
always going to have those feelings. But
you can recognize the game. You can
recognize the voice that's talking to
you and realize when that voice lies to
you and when it's telling you a story
that is either false or just a little
bit incomplete. I think if you had to
like say who is the happiest person in
the world on average, not like naming a
person, but if you had to describe the
life of like who's the happiest person
out there, my guess is it's probably
something close to a a middle-ass family
that lives in a three-bedroom house and
has a a 5-year-old car, but they have an
amazing marriage, tons of friends,
they're in good health, but they are by
any other statistic ordinary. and at the
end of their life more than the people
who are very very successful that
ordinary family is going to look back
when they're on their deathbed when
they're 95 years old and be like that
was good
>> that was a good time
>> do you think um this is a very strange
question to ask but do you think I could
make myself like that
>> no
here's the truth I think on the nature
nurture spectrum
most of what we believe and the feelings
that we have is forged at conception and
it's just we're just wired that Okay.
And there's not much we can do about it.
Some people have different aspirations.
Elon Musk was born wired very
differently than you and I. And there's
nothing we can do about that. So, we are
who we are, but I think we can put those
feelings into a better context. Even if
we can't control having those feelings,
we can choose, we can put tell ourselves
a more complete story about why we're
having those feelings and what those
aspirations will actually do to our
happiness. So on this point of how to
retire early, the first one was about
managing what you want. Is there
anything else there that if if I'm
trying to increase the probability that
I get to retire early, um I should know
in terms of tactics and strategies?
>> Well, one of the things, this is a
little bit different than than the
question that you asked, but one of the
things that's important is that a lot of
the people who do retire early, who they
tell themselves, I'm going to save so
much money and I'm going to retire when
I'm 32 and then life's going to be
great. What actually happens is they
retire at 32 and six months later
they're bored out of their mind and they
realize that like what actually makes
you happy is purpose and for a lot of
people their purpose can be their career
or they realize they had this idea that
when they retired it was just going to
be a great life but the truth is all of
their friends are working and don't have
time to go play golf with them on
Tuesday afternoon and so a lot of people
who retire early end up going back. They
realized it was not what it was meant
what it was made out to be because they
had if the the formula is independence
plus purpose. They gained independence
but they kind of lost their purpose and
then the for and so it was incomplete.
They didn't get what they wanted.
>> What about passive income? People talk a
lot about passive income. I had a friend
DM me the other day and say Steve I've
got some debts etc. But if I could just
figure out a way to create some passive
income then that should solve the
problem. And this term passive income
has become like
>> completely overused because for example
a lot of people when they talk about
passive income they're like oh I'm going
to own real estate. I'm going to have
some rentals and that's passive income.
If you think owning a rental property is
passive income you've never owned a
rental property because there's nothing
passive about it. It is a constant chain
of broken toilets and leaky roofs and
tenants who don't pay you on time and
there's nothing passive. That's a
full-time job doing that. And so I heard
someone say this recently that there's
two ways to get wealthier. You can
sacrifice more or you can want less and
that's it. And gain passive income is
not part of that equation because
>> what's the first one? Sacrifice more.
>> Sacrifice more.
>> What does that mean?
>> Work harder. Work work in a job that is
that has a lot of downsides that might
stress you out and requires you to wake
up early and go to work and do some
things that you don't want to do and
spend time away from your kids in a way
that you don't want to do. Sacrifice
more or want less. Those are your two
choices. And I think that's important in
the passive income debate because I I I
don't think there's but there by and
large is not a thing of passive income.
Even if you're just like, you know, you
put your money in a in a savings account
that pays 3% interest. Well, you had to
sacrifice to earn that money
>> and to save that money and to delay the
gratification of that money. I I I
really think it's an ironclad formula.
Sacrifice more or want less. Those are
your two options.
>> It's not nice. True.
>> People want, you know, tell me which
crypto to
>> right
>> to invest in to get that.
>> Of course, everyone's always going to
want the easy answer. Just like for
health,
>> the answer is eat a better diet and
exercise. Nobody wants that. They just
say, "Get what's the what's what's the
secret potion? What's the secret
formula?" And maybe now we have Ozic. So
maybe now we have it's closer to a to a
secret formula. But the truth is, what's
the secret to better health? Sacrifice
more because working out and lifting
weights and running is a sacrifice. It's
not fun. It hurts. that's why it's good.
Or want less, be happier with your
imperfect body. I mean, I think that's a
great analogy between health and and
wealth.
>> Often the difference between a company
succeeding or failing isn't down to its
product or strategy. It's down to the
people on the inside. After all, the
definition of the word company is group
of people. And some of the best
companies in the world have been largely
built by A players. Because I'll let you
in on a little secret. When you hire an
A player, they go on to hire more A
players. and it perpetuates. The
challenge is finding those first few A
players. I found the majority of mine on
LinkedIn who are a sponsor of this show.
LinkedIn provides talent I could not
find anywhere else. Talent with the
necessary skills and culture fit that
I'm looking for. Whenever I've paid to
promote a role on LinkedIn, I've been
able to hire faster and of course
better. Their data supports this, too.
You'll actually get three times more
qualified applicants than if you posted
the same role for free. So, if you're
trying to build something truly great,
you can get started by posting a job for
free by visiting linkedin.com/doac.
That's linkedin.com/doac
and you can post your role for free
there. Terms and conditions of course
apply. How much do I need to understand
what's going on in the wider world and
the economy in order to understand my
own spending behaviors, what I should
spend on, how to get wealthy, how to
save? Is it important to have any
understanding around the macro? Because
most people that listen to this show
will probably hear these terms being
spouted out on by political commentators
like the Federal Reserve, interest
rates,
>> tariffs, etc. And
should I understand any of this? Should
does any of it really impact me in a way
that matters to me and my family? I
don't think it's necessary. And you
could point to people I've written about
in my books who had no financial
education, no training, did not read the
Wall Street Journal, could not tell you
how the Federal Reserve works, but they
had control of their psychology, control
of their emotions, they they worked
hard, they saved their money, they
invested it, and that that's all you
need. They you you so the answer is you
don't need to know how this works. Just
in the same way that in order to be
healthy, you don't need a PhD in
biology. You don't need to understand
how cell division works in order to be
in good shape. And I think it's the same
for the economy. And it can actually
backfire for a lot of people that once
they start reading the Wall Street
Journal and learning a bit about
finance, it increases their confidence
more than their ability. So they're
like, "Oh, like I read the Wall Street
Journal. I should go day trade crypto
now
>> because I read a thing that teaches me
how the Federal Reserve works. So now
like I'm going to It increases your
confidence more than your skill."
>> That's so interesting. And so I I I
think it's important to be an informed
citizen and the Federal Reserve impacts
your life and tariffs impact your life.
So it's important to have some baseline
understanding, but I think that's more
about being an informed citizen and
informed voter than it is having
financial skill.
>> Of all of my best friends, there's like
five or six of them. The one that's most
cri is the one that knows the least
about I think he's the most rich period
to be honest. He's the one that knows
the least about finance and he knows the
least about investing. He knows the
least about crypto. Well, what's the
meme of like the the the tail spectrum
of like the poor person drives a Toyota,
the middle person has a Porsche, a BMW,
a Mercedes, and the rich person goes
back to Toyota of like it's like whether
you are very uneducated or extremely
wise, you tend to end up,
>> oh, this
and so I think I think it it does tend
to be the truth that the people who do
the best financially either have like no
financial education or extreme financial
education. And it's a person in the
middle that has their confidence is
increased much faster than their ability
and they're like, "Oh, no, no. I I read
this thing on Reddit that taught me
about day trading. So now I'm going to
go bet my entire net worth on this
company I've never heard of."
>> So funny. But so what is it that the the
person on the left and right side of the
spectrum are both doing that is the same
here? So, for anyone that can't see,
I'll put it up on the screen, but it
just shows the bottom axis says net
worth. And it basically says that people
with low net worth buy a Toyota, people
with like in the middle, that sort of
middle percentage buy Lamborghinis and
Porsches and Jaguars, and then people
with extremely high net worths buy
Toyotas. And obviously, it's a metaphor.
>> It's not it's not it's not exactly
perfectly true, but I think people like
a lot of comedy, you see it like it's
funny because people are like, "Yes,
that's true. That's how it works." I
think a lot of it is like the richer you
become, you realize that the big house
and the fancy car didn't do anything for
you. It did. It didn't give you what you
thought it was going to give you. And
then so you're like, look, I'm just
going to go back to utility. Like status
didn't do it for me, so I'm going to go
back to utility. It can also be the case
that if you're successful and rich, you
can gain your admiration and your
attention through what the business that
you built or the intelligence that you
have or the the friendship that you can
offer others and therefore your desire
to be like look at my car look how cool
my car is just goes down from there. The
way I also interpret it is that when
you're when you don't have much money or
when you don't have a huge financial
understanding like my friend, you end up
playing the really boring money games.
>> Yeah.
>> And when you have a huge financial
understanding, you probably also spend a
lot of time playing the boring money
games. And by boring money games, I mean
index funds.
>> Yeah.
>> And the S&P 500 versus like crypto.
>> Yeah. I think you'll see that in
investing that like the absolute lay
person will invest in index funds and
the extremely experienced Wall Street
veteran will invest in index funds as
well. And it's a person in the middle
that just has like a little bit of
intelligence, a little bit of
experience, a little bit of information
that is trying as hard as they can to
outperform the market. I kind of learned
that from reading your your book, The
Psychology of Money, because I I think
like many people thought there was some
trick or hack that this book was going
to teach me to figure out how to trade
coins at the right time or to like do
forex trading or whatever. But
ultimately, the book, if there was one
overarching lesson it taught me was that
like patience and uh
more boring investing is is the way to
get to build my wealth over the long
term. and that like all other strategies
have
hidden trade-offs which lead you to
being broke.
>> Yeah, I think there's a truth too that
like there's a there's an optimal level
of intelligence that you want for
investing where you want to be smart
enough to understand the basics but not
so smart that the basics bore you. And a
lot of people get so smart that they're
like look index funds compound interest
like I'm just putting like it's too
boring. like I I need something really
complex to satisfy the intelligence that
I have. And I I there's a sweet spot
where like for me I'm just like, "Oh,
index funds and compound interest." Like
that's that's kind of as high as my
intelligence goes here.
>> But I think the truth is that that is
the best position to be in. Smart enough
to understand the basics, but not so
smart that they become boring to you.
Because once they're boring to you,
you're just like, "Ah, sweep those away.
Let's try to
>> pull some more levers here."
>> What is going on in the world at the
moment, Morgan? There's um it feels like
people are more divided than ever before
and I feel like a lot of these subjects
we talk about are somewhat
interconnected. It feels like there's a
rise in inequality. You probably know
the numbers better than I do. Um I mean
there's a graph in front of you there
which shows
>> I think it's is it wage growth?
>> Yes, monthly wage growth.
>> Monthly wage from about 25 years
>> and it appears to be going down.
>> Well, but this is growth. So in any
given year, even if the growth is 2%,
that's 2% higher than the previous year.
So this is not wages over time. Now, it
is true that if you look over a 25-year
period and you took the average American
family, not everybody, but the median,
>> that their wages adjusted for inflation
have gone up. Not not up as much as
people would want over 25 years, but
that that they are better off than they
were 25 years ago. What is also true is
that the average median family would
probably disagree with that statement
even if it is true statistically for
several reasons. One of which is their
expectations have gone up over the last
25 years. The other is even if you're
looking at average wages
average and when we talk about these
statistics does not refer to any
specific family. This is just a
statistical number. Everyone spends
their money differently. So, if I told
you, hey, average family, you're richer
than you were in the year 2000. And
they're like, yeah, but I'm trying to
put my kids through college and have you
seen the price of college? And like,
yeah, that might be true because the
price of TVs has gone down, but have you
seen the price of rent and housing?
Like, at the individual level, these
statistics don't really mean that much
and never have. I think a lot of
economists get into a problem with that
when they're like, well, statistically
X, Y, and Z has happened. But ignoring
the psychology and the individuality of
like what's happening actually on the
ground in people's heads and how they
spend their money, there's a there's
just endless amount of nuance in here.
And so I think it's it's always been
true that we live in a world where over
long periods of time there's good
economic growth. We become wealthier. We
be we have bigger better things. We have
more income. We have better medicine.
It's equally true too that like there is
always something legitimate to complain
about. And it's legitimate to complain
about. It's not just like, "Oh, you
should be more grateful." It's a real
thing. And so when I look at a graph
like this, actually, what like if I was
thinking just like with my math head,
I'd be like, "Oh, there's been quite a
bit of growth over the last 25 years."
Like the growth has been gone up and
down, but it's growth. You know, never
in this chart is growth below zero.
>> I guess the question there is, are rich
people getting richer and are the poor
getting poorer?
>> It depends. I mean it's it's at the
indiv are rich are the rich getting
richer yes.
>> Are the poor getting poorer?
>> Statistically no.
>> Even adjusted for inflation.
>> I mean it it depends what period we're
talking about here. There was about a 20
or 30-year period where the answer was
unequivocally yes.
>> There was an interesting trend over the
last 10 years where
>> in percentage terms the the group of of
wage earners who had the highest
percentage growth were actually the low
wage. That was true for two or three
years after COVID where if you were a
low if you were a minimum wage worker
those were in percentage terms great
years for you for getting wages. It's
tapered off. So I the answer to your
question is the rich are getting richer.
The poor I think are treading water by
and large. There's there's always people
who are doing differently than that. But
when one group of society is getting
richer treading water feels like you're
falling. and the the specifics of how
people spend their money. So even if on
average adjusted for inflation their
wages are flat, but if your rent
skyrocketed or you're trying to send
your kids through college or you have a
long commute and you got to put gas in
your tank, at the individual level,
things can feel very very different from
what the statistics show.
>> And what role do you think this sort of
wealth inequality that is widening
between the very very top and everybody
else is playing in everything that we're
seeing play out at the moment? Because
in the UK it's almost like there's we're
on like the verge of riots it seems. And
I think last last month there was
millions of people in London protesting
against immigrants coming over on boats
and society becoming more multicultural.
I'm so fascinated by the subject because
you know earlier on we said that unless
you have immigration in the western
world you have population decline and if
you have
>> and population decline sucks
>> because you have a hit on GDP. biggest
problem right now throughout a lot of
the world, at least one of the biggest
perceived problems is immigration.
>> And the same is playing out in the
United States. If I go on X, although I
know I know what X is, um it's people,
maybe it's just my algorithm, but it's
people attacking immigrants and
immigration and people that are brown
and black and whatever else it might be.
I'm wondering how all of this is
intertwined and
>> and if it if it is connected at all
>> in your view. I think as a amateur
student of history across cultures all
over the place all through history what
you want to avoid more than anything in
society is when probably a third of the
population wakes up every morning and
says this isn't working. That's the
point at which it's going to collapse
from there is when enough people wake up
in the morning and just have this
feeling of like whatever this is it's
not working out for me. You want to
avoid that part. And so like look I'm a
I tend to be a a free markets guy. I'm a
capitalist. I think people should be
able to become very wealthy, etc., etc.
You also don't want to get to a point
where people become so wealthy that a
big chunk of society just wakes up every
morning and says, "Fuck this. This is
not this is not going to work out for
me." And I think we've got we've we're
either there or precariously close to
there in a lot of areas in the world.
Social media, that's always been the
case. And social media makes it a
hundred times worse than it's ever been.
>> Mhm. For example, you and I are
recording this a day after Charlie Kirk
was assassinated yesterday.
And there were who knows what number
percentage it was. But and I think it
was not hard on social media to find
people who were celebrating it
yesterday. Now when Martin Luther King
was assassinated, did those people exist
too who celebrated assassination? Of
course. But because of social media, by
and large, you did not hear from them
unless you were part of that group.
Whereas today, virtually everybody
yesterday saw people celebrating Charlie
Kirk's assassination. And so even if
those feelings existed in the past,
they're much more apparent today. You
see them today in a way that that you
did not before. So because of that, it's
easy to say we're more divided today.
We're more extreme today. We're more
pessimistic than they today. I think the
nuance is that's not actually true.
You're just more aware of it. That those
feelings always existed. They existed in
the 1990s. They existed in the 1950s. It
was just much easier to contain those
and for the average citizen who got
their information from one newspaper,
one evening news program to feel like
things were much more stable and in
control and that people were much more
uniform in their opinions than they
actually were. Before we start
recording, we were talking about the
Charlie Cook shooting and how
social media's ability to dehumanize
other people at a probably a faster rate
than history would have done it is
pretty remarkable. And you see a lot of
that. You see a lot of it taking place
on both sides. I think both sides
describe each other as being like
animals and inhumane. in one side's
calling the other side Nazis and then
the other side is calling the other side
referring to them in in animal terms
because of maybe the color of their skin
or their behavior. We saw a lot of that
when the that heinous individual killed
the young lady on the on the the train
in in America
>> and the way look this person is the
[ __ ] this worst thing on planet
earth. Um but the language was very
it was putting that person in a group of
other people.
>> Yes.
>> And then making the whole group a pack
of animals.
>> Right. Because in that situation too, we
talked about this earlier. I I don't
know that individual's name doesn't
matter, but no one refers to him by his
name. It's them. It's they. And that
once you dehumanize any group of people
like that, and this has been the case
for all of human history, that 99.9% of
people cannot kill another human, but
they're perfectly fine killing them.
They that group once you dehumanize, you
can do anything. And at the at a much
lower level, everyone realizes this with
road rage. I've had road rage. The
person cut me off. That son of a [ __ ]
honked my horn, flip I I don't I don't
get too extreme with it. But in things I
would never do eye to eye. But once I'm
looking at a car, then it's it's there's
no human there. And my ability to have a
level of anger is so much higher than it
would be if we were just looking eye to
eye. I had this experience a couple
years ago where I was pulling into a gas
station and I inadvertently cut somebody
off. It was an accident, but I totally
cut them off and he honked and threw up
his middle finger at me. And um we since
we pulled into the same gas station, we
were now like eye to eye and I walked
over to him and I think he thought I was
like coming to like confront him and I
put up my hands and said, "I just want
to apologize. I didn't I didn't mean to
cut you off. I'm so sorry. I did." It
was not on purpose. And he I think he
was so surprised and he was like, "Wow,
thank you. Thanks for like and we had
this moment of like almost hugging of
just like I'm so like I hope hope you
have a great day." It was one of those
of like once in the moment when it was
you strip the humanity off it when it
was two cars each other both of us were
like [ __ ] you once we looked eye to eye
it was like oh brother like it's okay
it's okay and I think that was just like
for me that was an individual example of
what happens at society when you strip
the humanity off it we're capable of so
much anger and hate eye to eye we're
like oh that's all good and I think all
of us know somebody who we disagree with
politically regardless of what it might
be and it's easy to be like oh that
person's an idiot. They're stupid.
They're illinformed. And actually, if
you sit down and talk to them, you're
like, "Ah, look, we might have some
disagreements here, but it's all good.
Cheers. Let's have a good night." Like,
eye to eye, like the vast majority of
people get along and get together. But
social media has turned all of life into
road rage.
>> Gosh. Yeah. I mean, you know that more
starkly than anyone as a podcaster
because I sit here with everybody of all
political opinions, extreme left, you
know, pretty extreme right. And at this
table, we get along,
>> right? We even off camera we get along.
>> I think so many people have said this in
the last 24 hours about Charlie Kirk.
>> One of the most common phrases I've
heard was I didn't agree with everything
he said, but at least he was brave
enough to have a conversation with
people who he disagreed with. That was
what he did by and large was going into
schools and being like, I know you
disagree with me. Let's talk.
>> And and he turned it from road rage into
a conversation between people. And even
if you disagreed with him,
>> I think he did it very right in that
sense. And I think that's what's why
people from all over the spectrum are
devastated in the last 24 hours. It was
like he was one of the people who was
doing it right. Even when you disagreed
with them, he was having a conversation
face to face and bringing people
together.
>> I think that absolutely hits the nail on
the head, which is I think, you know,
there's things that I absolutely don't
agree with him on. But I actually think
that's just completely beside the point
because I want to live in a world where
there's people that I disagree with.
Like I actually wouldn't choose the
world where everyone I encountered
agreed with my opinions. There would be
no intellectual growth. There'd be no
understanding. there've been a real
progress. Um, but also as you've
highlighted, the way that Charlie Kirk
went about it was he would went to
Oxford University and went on the
formalized debate panel against
>> in an office and a pine on social media.
He went face to face and said, "I know
you disagree with me.
>> Let's have a Yeah. And I'll listen to
what you He wasn't interrupting people
all the time. He hearing out their
points and he was making
>> respectful about it." And what is
missing from all political discourse
today, it's that. It's I know you
disagree, but let's talk and let's try
to be respectful about it.
>> And I can't think of anyone
on either side who who did that as
consistently as he did,
>> even if I disagree with him.
The idea that we're only going to talk
to people who we agree with is what
causes all the problems.
>> I don't understand these [ __ ] people.
I don't understand. It's much more
comfortable
to surround yourself with people who
agree with you than to accept the nuance
of life. And this is the problem with a
lot of political media is that it
creates much better content when people
say this is right, this is wrong, he's
right, he's wrong. To make it very
explicit, binary, black and white, than
it is to accept the truth, which is like
it's complicated.
>> I think I was like traumatized yesterday
when I watched that when I saw the video
of him being shot. I think it was this
weird like deep sense of like like uh
I've not been able to articulate what it
is, but it was I don't know Charlie
Kirk. I've never met him. There was a
time when, you know, we were potentially
going to have him on the show and we
were trying to figure out like, you
know, who to who to have here with him
cuz he's such an unbelievable debater
that he would have ran [ __ ] rings
around me.
>> Yeah.
>> I was like, who can you put to
>> You'd be like, you'd be like, fine, I'm
conservative. Yeah. Yeah.
>> But there was something really
surprising in how I felt when I when I
both heard the news and saw um him being
shot. This young guy, family person who
was out debating, who had ideas that
many people disagreed with, but was in a
forum where he was having them
challenged, could be executed in public
on live stream in a way that his
children are going to watch that video
when they grow up, probably multiple
times. And I was like, "Oh god, what?"
Yeah. What does this say about the
society we live in and where we're
heading? You know, I know guns play a
huge role in this and we have to
acknowledge that because it's very very
unlikely that could have happened in the
UK because no, we don't have guns there.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you could have thrown a rock or
something, but you could have killed the
guy. But it it's almost a it feels like
a crescendo of the moment.
>> Yeah.
>> Where division and algorithms and now
that you know X has gone a certain way
and other platforms are going certain
ways. And if you look at the stats,
there's more social networks now that
have more than 20 million active users
than at any time in human history. It's
gone up by 50% in recent times, which
means we're becoming more splined. And
then if you if you understand the
commercial models of these algorithms,
their commercial model is dependent on
you spending more time there. So, how do
I get you to spend more time there?
Well, I give you more of the things that
are going to trigger your amydala, which
is, you know, your fear senses and and
uh the things that are going to drive,
you know, drive you into rage and debate
and engagement and these and sharing
things. And so, I don't know. I I wonder
if there's a way back from here. I have
a an optimistic view and this is not a
forecast because I don't have 100% faith
in this
>> but there are so many endless examples
in history when people discount how
powerful cycle cycles can be and so my
optimistic my hope it's not even a
forecast it's a hope is that 15 or 20
years from now we look back at this era
as when things bottomed politically from
which we grew out of we improved And
we're going to look back and be like,
man, the the 2020s were so bad and we
were so divided, but that was also a
bottom that we came out of, like a
generational bottom. And that sounds
crazy today, but that's always been the
case. If you and I were talking about
the economy in the 1930s, it would have
been preposterous, completely insane to
say the 1950s are going to be the
greatest, most unbound prosperity,
middle class prosperity we're ever going
to have. That would have seemed insane.
If this was the 1970s and we just had a
raft of political assassinations in the
60s, John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther
King, Robert F. Kennedy, and then
Richard Nixon uh is impeached and
resigned for Watergate, it would have
been completely insane for you and I to
say, "Hey, do you know what? The 80s and
90s are going to be an era of political
stability and political faith and trust
in government." Would insane like it's
always when things are the lowest that
you feel like you're never going to
recover. But if you understand how
cyclical things can be, it's usually the
case that looking back you're like, man,
it was bad. But looking back, that was
the bottom. And I have no idea if the
bottom was yesterday or if it's going to
come 10 years from now. But I would bet
that the most likely scenario whenever
that bottom comes is that we will look
15 or 20 years back and be like that was
terrible. And at that moment, everyone
assumed it would go on forever, but
looking back, that was actually a
bottom. When enough people came together
and said, stop, stop. This is this is
too much. the forces that we've gone too
far in the other direction. We need to
we need to come around from them. It is
always impossible in real time to wrap
your head around that and to forecast
it. It's only looking back that you're
like, "Yes, that was the that that there
was the bottom." And you can see things
getting so bad. Trust in government is
so low. Polarization is so high. There
would not surprise me in the slightest
if we look 20 years from now and be
like, "Oh, things things got better."
>> I understand that from an economic
standpoint. I I struggle with it because
of the presence of how we like because
of the the medium in which we
communicate now with social media. Yeah.
And I was looking at the some of the
stats here and it says in 1994 only 20%
of Americans held a very unfavorable
view of the other party. By 2022 that
number has jumped to 72%
among Republicans and 63% among de
Democrats according to Pew Research. U
and this is particularly pronounced in
the United States. um and and the UK and
other parts of Europe. In this report,
it says that social media um and also
cable news's role has only amplified
echo chambers, making the divide sharper
and more emotional.
>> And I I can't especially with AI in the
way I go, well, AI is going to make
those algorithms even smarter.
>> Yeah.
>> At understanding exactly what to show me
to increase my engagement, therefore
increase their advertising dollars. So,
I'm like, what what would be the the
mechanism in this context?
I have no statistic or even strong thing
to back this up with, but my gut tells
me that the younger generation in
particular is going to be the one that
looks at social media and looks at AI
and recognizes the [ __ ] that can
come out of it. It's the older
generation. It's the boomers today on
social media who believe everything that
they see. And I think that tends to be
where a lot of the polarization comes
from. Not to blame everything on the
older generation. But I think if you
were to look at statistically who is the
most gullible on social media of
believing every post in their feed, it's
the older generation. And it would not
surprise me if the younger generation is
much more attuned to how quickly you can
be led astray into some [ __ ] rabbit
hole that is not reflective of how the
broader world works. I don't know if
that's true or not, but if you were to
ask me to articulate why we're going to
get around the social media bubbles, it
would be that the generations who have
been doing this the longest are going to
be the best at recognizing how dangerous
it can be.
>> You're a very smart guy and you're
someone that studies has studied history
and understands, you know, you wrote the
book Same as Ever, which shows a a guide
to what doesn't change through history
and how things can often stay the same.
So, this is a bit bit of a peculiar
question for you, but in the wake of
what happened to Charlie Kirk yesterday,
his his public murder and all that's
rising from that, what should someone
like me and you, who have public
platforms, who reach people on a daily
basis, do help?
>> I think we have to remind ourselves two
things about social media. One is that
it's been designed by the smartest
people of our generation to deliver you
in your feed not the best information,
not the right information. Basically,
what's going to give you the most FOMO,
the most anxiety, what's going to like
pull out the starkkest reaction in you.
>> And the smartest people of our
generation have gone to work at Facebook
and Google and whatever and Tik Tok to
make an algorithm that's going to give
you that. That's going to give you the
the thing in your feed that's going to
make you go, "Wow, like what?" Like,
that's so out. And two is that even when
it's it's not that even when it is just
people's thoughts
people go on social media to perform
>> they go on like they are trying to give
you and I'm trying to do this on social
media as well. I don't want to give you
any random thought in my head. I'm going
to specifically give you what I think is
going to be interesting and what not. So
if we view social media as a proxy for
the real world and I think everyone it
kind of intuitively does even if they
when you say it out loud you're like no
of course it's not the real world. But
it's easy to assume that when I open up
Twitter or Facebook or Instagram, I'm
like, I I'm just I'm just seeing a
window into the world. You're like, no,
these are people performing for you and
the smartest minds in the world ordering
that performance for what's going to
give you the most anxiety.
>> Are you optimistic about the the Western
economy, the US economy?
>> I could be optimistic long-term and
realistic about what growth means. The
reason we tend to have growth in the
economy and in the stock market is
because it's specifically because
there's short-term chaos. So, am I
optimistic about the next 30 years? AB:
Absolutely. I know that my kids will be
living a better material life than you
and I are. They'll have better medicine.
They'll have better technology. They'll
have flying cars. Whatever it is, it
does that. But I'm equally confident, if
not more confident, that the path
between now and then is going to be
chaos. And that's not exclus. That's not
mutually exclusive. like the fact that I
know I'm extremely confident that
there's going to be a lot of growth and
that it's going to be a constant chain
of setback and suffering and misery
between now and then.
>> Is there anything that you see it
creating a setback? I mean, there's
these new protagonists in the story.
There's AI, there's um the declining
birth rates which is going to have an
impact on the population. Is there
anything that you think is your most
focus? There's tariffs as well. Um
there's Trump economics which can cause
some instability. Historically, the
biggest risk by far has always been the
thing that nobody's talking about. So
when we sur you and I survey the world
today, we talk about exactly what you
just said, tariffs, birth rate. People
know about those things. There's never
been a period when the biggest risk was
something that was knowable. It's always
something like COVID, which nobody saw
coming, September 11th, which nobody saw
coming, the Great Depression, like all
these things, Pearl Harbor, all these
things that were not on people's radar
that did the most damage. And so it's
not that I don't worry about tariffs or
that I don't worry about uh birth rates.
I do. But I would guarantee you that the
the worst economic story of the next 10
years. The biggest risk is something
that you and I are not talking about
whatsoever. It's a risk that's going to
come completely out of the blue. That is
not in any newspaper. It's not in any
podcast. That's going to be the biggest
risk. Is there a particular chapter in
the psychology of money which was your
the book that sold I I hear almost 10
million copies and had a profound impact
on my life and and my family's life. Is
there a particular story or chapter in
this book that is your favorite?
>> I think the the chapter on reasonable
versus rational which to very quickly
summarize it is don't pretend like you
are purely rational and you're a
spreadsheet and your financial decisions
have to like make perfect sense.
Everyone is a little bit flawed, a
little bit emotional, different family
situations, different goals. As long as
your financial decisions are merely
reasonable, that's good. And I think a
lot of people, for me, and for a lot of
people, they're like, "Oh, thank you for
giving me permission because I have this
quirky thing that I do with my money and
it doesn't make any sense, but it's
reasonable and but it makes sense for my
personality." And like, as long as it's
reasonable, like don't be unreasonable,
>> but don't think that every one of your
financial decisions has to add up
perfectly in a spreadsheet. You want to
use money as a tool for a better life
>> and there's many different ways to do
that. A lot of which might make sense to
me but not make sense to you or vice
versa. And so that's fine. And so uh I I
think that to me of just like hey this
is not an exercise in a spreadsheet
where I'm just trying to make sure all
the numbers add up. I'm just trying to
use money to be a little bit happier and
to sleep better and to give myself my
family a little bit of a better life.
Even if it doesn't always make sense.
This is a tool to give me a better life.
If money is a tool for happiness, I
guess you have to get really clear,
which you talk about in in your new
book, The Art of Spending Money. You
have to get really clear on what your
goal is. And I think most of us have
never actually done an exercise to get
clear on that.
>> Yes.
>> Which is quite shocking. Jeff Bezos
talks about this in a way that I think
was really profound where he's like he
thought about building Amazon with what
he called the regret minimization
framework which was he envisioned
himself being 90 years old or whatever
on his deathbed and looking back and he
said the goal for life was to be on your
deathbed and have as few regrets as
possible. And he said if he started
Amazon and it failed he would not have
regretted that. But if he never tried to
start it, he would regret it. And so it
was an easy of of course he has to do it
because he wants to have as few regrets
as possible. But I just think that very
simple framework of the overarching goal
in life. If you have like what is the
base of the pyramid for how to good live
a good life, you want to have as few
regrets as possible. Not take as few
risks as you can. Just have as few
regrets as possible. And I think what's
hard is that people by and large don't
have a good concept of what they will
regret. It's it's easy to do because a
lot of things kind of compound slowly.
So, uh if you eat a poor diet or if
you're like not treating your friends as
well as you should, that's like a slow
thing. You might regret it eventually,
but you're going to look back, but in
real time, you don't really understand
what you're doing. So, to have a good
sense of what you're going to regret is
a difficult thing, but to me, that's the
ultimate goal in life. There is a a you
know I I I heard the story one time of a
uh of a guy who his his his last words
on his deathbed were so much wasted
time. Those are his last words. And I
remember thinking like that's that's
that's as worse that's that's as bad as
it comes to be on your deathbed and look
back and being like man what a what a
regret just filled with regrets of the
things you didn't do of the way that you
treated people of the risk that you
didn't take. And so I think that if
there is an overarching philosophy, it's
that. And I ask myself a lot like, do I
have a good sense of what I'm going to
regret? And for every decision that I
make, do I ask myself, will I regret
doing or not doing this thing? Easier
said than done, but it's something I
think about a lot.
I think it's generally just hard for us
to appreciate that there will be a
future self. I I was reading a study
where they put people in these MRI
scanners and then asked them to think
about themsel and then a celebrity and
then themselves in 10 years time and the
when they thought about themselves a
certain part of the brain lit up when
they thought about a celebrity or
themselves in 10 years time a different
part of the brain lit lit up which kind
of makes you think that we don't really
our future self is a stranger.
>> Yeah. And so we act and I think this
about the people that I sit here with I
think probably most of the people that I
sit here with learning from. If you
could like distill it down to why
they're here, it's because they were
able to think about themselves in 10
years time.
>> They were able so they became an athlete
and trained or they became a CEO or they
became an expert in something. They were
able to like think and they got through
the PhD and all the I don't know just
>> there's a great quote from Jerry
Seinfeld. He says self-control is
empathy with your future self. M
>> it's you are making a decision to either
do or not do something today because you
have respect for your future self and
you care about your future self. You
know there's going to be a Steven 10
years from now and you want to do
something today with compassion for that
person 10 years from now.
>> I'm guessing kids help in some regard
because they give you a future
>> to think about. Yeah. Right. something
that's gonna outlive you and you want to
teach them something and and you know
push them into becoming someone that's
gonna outlive you. So you're you're have
like by default you're thinking about
something that's going to outlive
yourself. If you've ever worked in a
startup you already know it's chaos.
It's speed and it is survival. And now
with AI accelerating everything that
speed has only increased. Startups are
landing enterprise deals even earlier
than before. But what comes with those
deals is regulatory requirements.
Something a lot of earlystage businesses
aren't equipped to handle. And a sock
too, if you know what that means, isn't
always enough. When having the right
kind of security is the difference
between making a deal or breaking a
deal, you need to have a plan in place.
Vanta, who are a sponsor of this
podcast, have an AI and automation
system that makes it easier to meet
buyer expectations in just days. and
they continuously monitor your
compliance so any future deals are never
blocked. With AI changing regulations,
their team knows exactly what's needed
and when it's needed. And they've built
the fastest and easiest path to get you
there. If you're running a startup and
this appeals to you, you can visit
vanta.com/ceo
and get $1,000 off. That's vanta.com/ceo
for $1,000 off. AI agents aren't coming.
They are already here. And those of you
who know how to leverage them will be
the ones that change the world. I spent
my whole career as an entrepreneur
regretting the fact that I never learned
to code. AI agents completely changed
this. Now, if you have an idea and you
have a tool like Replet, who are a
sponsor of this podcast, there is
nothing stopping you from turning that
idea into reality in a matter of
minutes. With Replet, you just type in
what you want to create and it uses AI
agents to create it for you. And now I'm
an investor in the company as well as
them being a brand sponsor. You can
integrate payment systems or databases
or loginins, anything that you can type.
Whenever I have an idea for a new
website or tool or technology or app, I
go on replet.com and I type in what I
want. A new to-do list, a survey form, a
new personal website. Anything I type, I
can create. So, if you've never tried
this before, do it now. Go to replet.com
and use my code steven for 50% off a
month of your replet plan. You talk in
the book about trying new things and and
why that is. Uh there's a chapter called
try something new and I think a lot of
us actually get stuck in ruts in life
and that ends up we get stuck in
routine. It's weird how as we age we
like routine more but intuitively
everyone would say that routine makes
them
>> boring
>> boring less less life less spontaneous
less interesting less ore less wonder
there's a thing people realize this that
summer vacation when you're 10 years old
seems like it lasts forever but when
you're an adult summer goes by in 3
seconds and you're like what like why
does why is time going faster at least
one of the theories for why it seems
like time goes faster as you age is
because when you're a child every day is
something new. You're experiencing
something for the first time. It's a
constant chain of novelty. When you're
an adult, it's probably the same
commute, going to the same job, living
in the same house, and one day blends
into the next, and before you know it,
10 years has passed. And so, the idea of
like trying something new, I think, is
is is important. The point I made in the
book about trying something new is you
don't know what your thing that you
really are going to enjoy in life is. It
might not be intuitive. Some people
value travel. By and large, I don't.
Some people enjoy like spending a ton of
money on wine. By and large, I don't.
But I do spend my money on things that
you might not appreciate. Like,
everybody's different. You can't.
There's no formula for how to do it. You
have to try a million different kinds of
spending before you're like, "Oh, I like
this. I don't like that. I want to focus
more on this." And it's not intuitive
what that thing is going to be. My wife
and I also had this realization in the
last month. So many people when they
talk think about money and spending,
they're like, "I want to travel. I want
to I want to have more money so I can
travel." I think by and large that's
great. Travel is an amazing thing. My
wife and I realized that like I think
we've done so much of it and because we
have kids right now that we're like I
don't think we enjoy it that much. And
it wasn't until we were looking at our
summer schedule that we're like okay we
got two more trips coming up that we
were like really and we realized the
best part of the last several trips that
we've taken is coming home.
The most enjoyable part of the trip was
coming home. And we were like, can we
just admit
>> that maybe we shouldn't be doing this as
much as we do.
>> That's so fun.
>> Even if society tells us that we should
do it and everyone else I travel a lot
for work. So like my idea of a vacation
is not not going on an airplane.
>> And but you have to realize like
everyone's unique and different. Like if
travel is your thing or someone
listening to this, awesome. Please go do
it. We had to just admit to ourselves
that at least at this phase of our life,
we want to do a little bit less of it.
The idea that everyone's different is
important.
>> I think I mean I think exactly that. I
think what underp underpins much of your
message here is this ability to
cultivate self-awareness.
>> Yeah. And I think a lot of what throws
people off with money is chasing a
lifestyle that is right for somebody
else but not right for them. And that it
can be very a hard thing to do because
you're like, man, this person over here,
he's working this hard and and she has
this house and they're living this
lifestyle and it looks like they're
pretty happy. And then you try to do it
and you're like, but I'm not happy. And
the truth may have been that working
that hard and spending money on that was
right for that person, but it's not
right for you.
>> That's what we don't understand.
>> You and I had Jeff Bezos's
ambition, Elon Musk's ambition, I think
we I I' I'd drive we drive ourselves
absolutely crazy. It's right for them,
it might not be right for us.
>> And so when we view it as it worked for
them, so I should do it, too. No, no,
no. It doesn't work like that. You have
to figure it out for yourself.
>> But also the inverse, right? It didn't
work for them, so it won't work for me.
is also incorrect,
>> right? I think it's immature for people
to say, I like this thing and therefore
you should too.
>> Or the reverse, this didn't work for me
and therefore nobody should do it.
>> This is the whole work life balance.
>> That's not how life works. Right. Right.
>> And this is what you see raging on
LinkedIn is one group of people saying
that amount of work and sacrifice is
toxic.
>> You should do it or or which is you're
lazy.
>> You have you have to hustle. You're lazy
if you don't live the life that I do.
>> And both sides are wrong.
>> Yes. It comes from a sense of immaturity
that everyone else should enjoy life in
the exact same way that I do.
>> I think there's a few psych
psychological forces at play here. One
is
if you're looking at a bunch of people
working really hard and you're not, it's
in a weird way holding a mirror up to
you and implicitly sort of like
indirectly saying that you're not
enough.
>> Yeah.
>> And then maybe on the other side there's
some other force going the other way.
But I think both sides are kind of like
misunderstanding
that everybody is not them.
>> Yes. And I can pick apart elements of
your life. Say, "Wow, Stephen, his
podcast is is this and he's got homes
here and he's doing this." But there's a
million different components of your
life in my life and everybody's life
that are invisible. And most people
because of self-preservation or because
they're trying to get ahead in life will
not disclose what the bad parts of their
life are. Of course, everybody does
this. I I do this. You probably do.
Everyone does that because either they
don't want to admit them to themselves
or they don't want to talk about it
because they think other people are
going to judge them for the bad parts of
their life. So, it's very easy to look
at other people's lives and have a sense
of like, oh, well, theirs is better than
mine because all you can see is what
they are advertising.
And uh and and and because of that, it's
very easy to be jealous or envious of
people and say, "If only I had their
life, things would be better." And part
of it is good. It's part of it is good
for me to look at be like, "Man,
Stephen's been so successful doing this
kind of content. Maybe I should do
that's motivation." But once I say
their life looks better than mine, and
if only I had what they had, I would be
happier is is a very treacherous path,
treacherous path to go down.
>> Jack is the producer on the show. He's
he's done the show with me since the the
very beginning of us launching on
YouTube. And so he understands the
intricacies of my life very well. He
understands my business. He understands,
you know, the this what it takes and the
trade-offs. So, Jack,
would you want my life?
>> Absolutely not.
[Laughter]
>> No hesitation there.
>> There's there's no world where like I
could even imagine being in your world.
The amount of people that are bidding
for your attention on a daily basis is
mind-blowing to me. the podcast is like
such a huge part of your life, but the
fact that I barely hear from you on like
a weekly basis can probably put into a
little bit of perspective how much you
have on your plate. I just like couldn't
imagine having the magnifying glass on
me that much
>> that the whole world is kind of looking
at me and thinking like has an opinion
on you.
>> Mhm.
>> And you run lots of businesses, so you
almost have to perform a little bit. And
I think I see the worst of you and I
actually take that a huge compliment
because you can be yourself around me. I
remember the time when you had to
schedule your lunch.
>> Oh, I still schedule my lunch. It
doesn't happen but I schedule it.
>> You schedule it cuz you like don't get
time for your lunch.
>> Like you went out of here, you went to
the toilet and people are asking you
questions in between going from here to
the toilet. It's stuff that needs to be
asked, but it's that is your life.
That's the kind of thing that you've um
gone into.
>> And I don't know if that kind of answers
your question. I could probably go on
for a long long time, but I've got
>> you should do a whole episode to do I've
got last question then. So ask two more
questions. The next question is do you
think that I do you think I'm happy in
my life?
>> Uh yes. I don't think you're content.
>> Mhm.
>> I think you're happy, but I don't think
you're content.
>> Yeah.
>> And what do you mean by content? Like
what do you mean by content? you're
always trying to chase the next thing
and I'm not sure why. Like you could so
easily just do this podcast and it would
do so well for you. Like it does do so
well for you. Uh you could spend all
your time doing this and I think you're
super happy when you do do this. But
then there's also other stuff that
clearly makes you happy that you want to
do, but then you'll come to me and
you're like, "We should start this new
YouTube channel."
And I'm kind of like, yeah, great idea,
but I don't know why you want that extra
effort. To your core, you're a
businessman, so you're constantly trying
to build and scale, but on like a
personal reflection of how much extra
toll that takes on you. And also for
Mel, I know your relationship with Mel,
you don't see her that much.
So, I think that's quite an interesting
one. But yes, I do think you're happy,
but I don't think you're content.
>> And last question, what would you like
from my life?
>> What would I like from your life?
>> Yeah. So you said you wouldn't want my
you would want my life
>> because and you talked about the
downsides.
>> Yeah. What elements Yeah. of my life
would you like?
>> That's actually quite interesting cuz I
was I think I was talking to Jim and Coy
about this last night. Your life is so
engineered to be super efficient.
>> Yeah.
>> So you have someone books your cars for
you, someone books your flights for you.
You you basically, as far as I'm aware,
I don't think you do much kind of normal
admin that I would do.
>> No, I don't even pick what I eat.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> I like I get the surprise. I walk out
here and it's there and I go, "Okay,
well, I'm having broccoli today."
>> And I think so much of like the joys of
what comes from life is the little
messiness of life.
>> Yeah.
>> And I actually think Morgan kind of
touched on this at the start, that
simple kind of family that just
>> they're not like super ambitious, but
they're super happy. Like that messiness
of life is kind of there's so much like
beauty in that. I know you asked me what
you would want from your life, but I
think on the surface I probably would
like that stuff, but I understand and
appreciate the beauty of doing those.
>> I ask the question around um um do you
think I'm happy? Because
even though you heard all of that stuff
and you go, "Fuck me, this guy like he
he doesn't have much time and he's he's
always working." And like we took a
toilet break, which the audience
probably won't know, but yeah. As I
walked out of there, two different team
members came up to me two different
issues. They said, "Someone's wants to
come on the podcast tonight. I've got
this huge meeting in New York City
tonight with this major investor for 4
hours." That then they asked me in the
hallway. They said, "Do you want this
major guest to come on the show tonight
or to cancel this huge meeting with this
investor
>> to make the decision in 4 seconds?"
>> 4 seconds. So you saw me sit down and go
tell the team yes.
>> I I did
>> which was me making that executive
decision and I was on my phone for two
and a half seconds trying to make the
decision. But it also means that date
night is if impacted with my girlfriend.
He's So like that that was a little
representation of my life. And I I um I
asked Jack if he thinks I'm happy
because my opinion
and I could be living in a delusion is
that I am happy. And I the way that I
would hazard a guess that I'm happy is I
am not unhappy and I don't have
unhappiness.
My guess too is that you if you said I'm
going to quit the podcast, quit all
this, close the business down, you would
be beside yourself with anxiety and
depression.
>> And so it's less about like is doing
this does doing this make you happy? I
think the better answer is not doing
this would make you miserable.
>> Yeah.
>> But that's who you are and that's how
and I again I'm so grateful that people
like you exist because I get to benefit
from the sacrifices that you made.
>> It's not a sacrifice to me.
Yes, I I I I get that. But what from my
perspective would be a sacrifice I get
to benefit from because you make great
content that I listen to and whatnot.
>> And so I like living in a world where
most people wake up in the morning and
say this isn't enough.
>> And I I I think I do that too. I want to
write more books, better books, and but
if you don't have some capacity to say,
look, I have ambitions. I have goals
that I want to achieve. I want to work
hard to achieve those. I want to
sacrifice to achieve those, but I'm
never going to have a good life unless I
can take a step back and be like, man,
like look what I have right now, even if
it's not that much. There's a very good
book written by a gerontologist named
Carl Pillmer. He wrote a book called 30
lessons for living where he interviewed
a bunch of elderly Americans who were
like 90 to 100 years old. And he just
said, "Tell me the secret to a good
life. You've experienced a lot of life
you know." And he has a section where he
says, "Of the thousand people who we
interviewed, not a single person looking
back at their life said,"I wish I made
more money."
>> Not a single person said, "I wish I
would picked a career that paid more
money." Not one, but almost every single
one of them looking back at their life
said, "I wish I was nicer to people. I
wish I was more helpful to my friends. I
wish I spent more time with my family."
That was universal. So, if you want to
talk about like regrets, what are we
most likely what are you and I most
likely to regret when we're 90? It's not
making more money. It's spending time
with the people around us that we love
and appreciate.
>> I find myself switching between states
and sometimes it's because of a thought,
but I find myself switching between
these states of being like in a moment
and a in in a mode of gratitude. So last
night I did the Jimmy Fallon show here
in New York. My team were there. It was
this really wonderful moment. My, you
know, I woke up this morning feeling
incredibly grateful. Last night I was
like listening to some of my favorite
music. I felt incredibly grateful and
really happy. And then I know that I'm
gonna switch into the lack of
contentment that Jack's referring to.
>> Happiness is always a five minute
emotion.
>> Yeah. And and like today I'm I'm back to
business and it's like build build bill
build. And then I have this moment last
night where I was I was making the
Instagram post to announce that I've
been on Jimmy Fallon and I noticed my
girlfriend next to me in bed had fallen
asleep. And this thought comes through
my head all the time now, probably from
doing this podcast, which is exactly
what you said, which is
>> I am gonna regret not spooning her and
cuddling her while I have the chance,
especially I think cuz Charlie Kirk had
just been shot and I'd seen the his
family.
Maybe that's why it was front of mind
for me. And I remember putting the phone
down and thinking
>> the thing I'm going to regret is not
cuddling her.
>> And so I put the phone down and cuddled
cuddled her. And so, yeah, I I I'm I'm
strange, I think, because I I I flock
between these states and sometimes on an
hourly basis, sometimes on a daily
basis, sometimes on like a
minute-by-minute basis.
>> The fact that you're just merely aware
of those states
>> and the the false story that those
states can tell you puts you way ahead
of most people. I think that I think to
some extent that there there's a there's
an interesting book called 10% Happier
and it's about meditation and the point
the title came from everyone's like oh
can meditation change your life and his
point was like it can make you 10%
happier but like that's pretty cool and
I think that's true for money as well of
like can it completely change your life
and turn you into a much better person
and way happier like I kind of feel like
no but like it can make you 10 maybe 20%
happier in life I think that's that's
probably right but just Being aware of
its limitations like is a huge relief. I
say I think be like no if you want a
happier life you're going to have to
find it through your purpose and your
friends and your family and your health
and your other philosophies of life that
have nothing to do with money. It can
help. It can make you 10 20 maybe 30%
happier but understanding its
limitations and what it's not going to
do for you is pretty important.
That lack of contentment I think I
sometimes feel guilty about because I
sit with so many people especially like
people that are monks and such and they
tell you that wanting will make you
despair and make you unsatisfied but I
find myself as being one of those people
that you describe that constantly wants
to chase and pursue and pursue and I
think that I do have like am I supposed
to feel guilty about that? Is that
something like wrong with me? No, I mean
I think that's how humans have evolved
is to because at the core of it is
competition like where you have that I
think drive everyone has that drive is
not necessarily because you want to
build another business or build a grow
your podcast. It's competition with
others who might be doing that better
than you or who might take your place if
you were to step back that gives you the
anxiety. I think that's what everything
has as its core. And that's why I like
asking the question, if nobody was
watching, what would you want to do? If
nobody was watching your podcast,
would you still want to do these
interviews?
If nobody could see your house, would
you still would you buy a house that was
as big as the one you did? Sometimes the
answer is yes. The answer might be yes
to both of those questions. But it's an
important question to ask of are you
doing this because it actually fulfills
you or because you are competing with
other people and you think you're
gaining their attention by doing these
things.
>> I think everyone who is answering
honestly would say for most of the
decisions in their life especially the
big ones the answer is both.
>> Yes. So like choosing Harvard versus the
other university which might have been
better but it's Harvard or buying the
house where you bought it or that watch
that you bought or the Apple Watch
instead of the whatever
>> and signaling is important. You can't
just discount it because if you want you
know to attract the right the right
friends, the right spouse, the right
employers, there's a signaling aspect. A
college degree is signaling. It's not
the education you obtained. It's you're
showing employee you're giving a signal
to an employer that for four years I
showed up and did the material and got
the right answers. It's a it's signal
like signaling can be very very
important. It's not to discount it but
there's a right and a wrong kind of
signaling. There's a right kind of like
I'm I'm doing this. I'm dressing in a
way and displaying myself and cutting my
hair in a way that's going to attract
the right friends and the right mates,
the right boyfriend, girlfriend,
whatever it might be. There's also
signaling of like, I'm going to aspire
to buy this car that's a huge pain in
the ass and I actually hate driving, but
I think strangers are going to look at
me and pay more attention to me. That's
the wrong kind of signaling.
>> I think this is the thing that both
sides misunderstand in the debate is
that someone who is a workaholic,
believe it or not, can be happy.
>> And someone who does no work or works
one day a week can be happy.
>> And this is like a really difficult
concept for either side to understand
about the other side. And that's why as
well I asked the question about Jack
like do you think I'm happy? Because
Jack would know that if I'm like if I
walk out of here and he sees me as this
depressed person who never smiles, never
laughs and has no joy in my life,
doesn't have mo, you know, then I would
very much fit the stereotype of like the
tortured workaholic or whatever. But
it's uh yeah, it's surprising. It's
surprising.
>> I think we all just want contentment. So
like we I think we get into a lot of
trouble when we chase happiness when
what we're actually going for is
contentment. We actually just want to
get to an area where we're like, I'm
good. I'm all set.
>> What's the most important thing or the
most interesting thing in your book that
you can remember that we didn't talk
about that maybe we should have talked
about?
>> I think the relationship between money
and kids is is a is an interesting one
where every parent wants to use their
hard work. What money they might have.
It doesn't have to be a ton. You don't
have to be rich, but they want to use
their hard work in order to give their
kids a better life. When a lot of times
what the kid needs to do is learn on
their own. and they're going to learn
vicariously the values that you have
about money. They're going to learn just
by watching. You don't need to sit your
kids down and say, "Let me teach you how
to budget. Let me teach you how to save.
Let me teach you how to invest." They're
going to figure they're going to watch
you and figure it out. And so, you have
to just lead by example with those kids.
You cannot lecture values into them.
They're just going to watch how you
spend, what you value, how you save, how
you judge other people and talk about
other people, and they're going to form
a philosophy of money based off of that.
I often think about money in terms of
like attachment styles. You know, in
like dating psychology and romance, they
talk about anxious, avoidant, um, and
then the what's the middle person
called? They're like a basically
neutral. But I think I had an avoidant
money attachment style. I think money
was the like the third parent in my
household. And I learned that money
causes problems. That it doesn't come
around as much as we would like. That
it's really why we argue in the
household. That it's the reason why I am
embarrassed when we pull up in that
terrible car and I try and get my I hope
the traffic lights change in a certain
way so that I can be dropped off further
away from the school so no one sees me.
Like my relationship with money was
established at such a young age and it
was it's almost like a I had like a
unhealthy like they say relationship.
Yeah. like an attachment style to it.
Um, and I just wonder like is that a
useful frame to think through that you
have this Yeah. like this romanticesque
relationship with this thing and in
order to change that you need to
unlearn the lessons.
I think a lot of like the lessons that
we learn about money when we're younger
are because like I said earlier, it's
because you when you're young,
particularly you're a teenager, you're
in your early 20s. Most people in that
situation have very little other skills
to offer the world. Yeah.
>> Humor, intelligence. Some some people
more than others, but in that situation,
you're always going to gravitate towards
if only I had a nicer car when I was
being dropped off at school, then they
would pay attention to me. But the truth
is, if you were the funniest kid in
class, it doesn't matter if you're
dropped off in a dull junky car. people
still respect you because they're like,
"Man, he's a star of the football team."
That kid's hilarious. Doesn't matter
what kind of car he's driving. You gain
your attention and your respect from
something else. But if you're not the
star football player, if you're not
funny, if you have nothing else to
offer, then you seek your admiration
through, "Oh, he's dropped off in an
escalade. He's cool." That's where you
want your attention to come from.
>> Is there anything else we should have
talked about that we haven't talked
about, Morgan?
For people that are trying to get a grip
of their life, be happy, make better
money choices. to me like the common
denominator between all three of those
books that you're holding is the idea
that we talked about quite a bit on all
the shows we've done together which is
that there is no formula for it and
that's very disheartening for a lot of
people to hear. There's no formula for
here's what I want you to go out and do,
which is a lot of what people want out
of content, whether it's a book or
podcast, like just tell me what to do.
And the answer is like I I can't because
I don't know you and you don't know me.
We're all different. But I think that's
actually the biggest like relief. That's
actually the best news that you don't
have to follow somebody else's playbook.
You can do it your own way. And it's
easier to do it your own way when you
come to terms with the fact that nobody
is paying as much attention to you as
you think they are. You can do it your
own way free of judgment and other
people, you know, making fun of you or
judging how you're living life because
they're too busy worrying about
themselves. You have to figure out what
works for you and do it. And that's as
close as we can get as a formula for
living a better life.
>> It's funny because the book is called
The Art of Spending Money, but much of
the throughine throughout the book is
really about happiness. And I guess
that's really what money is for many
people,
>> a tool tool to become happier.
>> A tool to become happy. No,
>> I remember when I interviewed Mo Gorda,
he wrote a book um about happiness. He
said to me a line that's always stayed
with me. He said, "Happiness is when
your expectations of how your life is
supposed to be going are met."
>> Yes.
>> And so with through that lens, I look at
everything. I look at like the food that
you're given in a restaurant and if you
expected it to be this and it doesn't
come like that, there's unhappiness.
Even if it's like a fivestar a A5 Wagu
steak or whatever.
>> Um and then your relationships, all of
my arguments I've ever had with my
girlfriend, all stem back to unmet
expectations.
>> Expectations. I was saying if if you
ride the Amtrak train from like New York
to Washington DC, on every train they
have what's called the quiet car. And in
the quiet car, you're not supposed to
talk at anything above a whisper. No
phone calls, no talking with your
friends. It's the quiet car. And people
go there for peace and quiet and
serenity. And the irony is that people
are so uptight in there because if if
they hear one peep out of everyone,
they're like, "Would you shut up? We're
in the quiet car." They're so frustrated
about it because your expectation is,
"I'm going to get quiet." And if it's
anything other than quiet, you lose your
mind. And it's like at that point,
that's when your high expectations are
actually working against you.
>> And people are actually calmer in the
normal car where there's chaos all
around them because that's what they
expect.
>> So that's the unhappiness cart,
>> right? You're like your expectations are
a debt that has to be repaid.
>> That gives us a controllable element to
our happiness, doesn't it?
>> Your expectations because your
expectations are more in your control
>> than things like what the economy or the
stock market's going to do next. Like I
have no nobody has any control of what
the stock market's going to do next. But
you have you do have more control over
your expectations of how much money do
you expect to make next week? What do
you expect out of the stock market? What
do you expect out of your career? What
do you expect out of your spouse? Like
that is more in your control than
influencing other people's behavior.
>> And this is probably why all these
eastern traditions talk about gratitude
because gratitude is the very
realization that expectations I once had
are currently being met.
>> Yeah. And it just even when you start to
think about dreams you once had that you
are now living out for me it makes me
feel yeah that feeling of contentment it
makes me feel really really good inside.
So like even yesterday where I took a
moment and I was on the Jimmy Fallon
show and it's like this crazy thing to
me that I could never have imagined
someone like me doing and I took a
minute to just like think about how far
beyond my expectations
this stuff was.
>> Yeah.
>> It you feel overwhelmingly good about
it. But but the truth was relative if
you just thought about yesterday
>> you expected to go on the Jimmy Fallon
show you that that that that met your
expectations for the day if you looked
at your calendar for the day it was I
need to go to Jimmy Fallon I need to
perform I need to say the right things
but over the longer scope that's off the
charts of your expectations
>> and that's the zooming out is where we
see right
>> the gratitude you know fills us up
>> right and it's it's very difficult to
say this without sounding ridiculous but
you can even zoom out and be like god
I'm so grateful to live in a world with
antibiotics
Advil. Like it sounds crazy because we
expect them. Whenever we take
penicellin, we're like, "Yeah." Like
it's just a thing that exists. But can
you imagine living in a world without
99% of humanity did before us? Like it's
it's impossible to think of like the
most basic things that we take advantage
of. But that's where gratitude like you
have to zoom out to become more grateful
to these things. And you're not going to
be content until you can exercise that
level of gratitude.
>> You said something earlier which
dubtales into this where you said that
um at different levels people will
aspire. You know, the billionaire wants
two billion. And I was reading a study
many years ago that said roughly all the
way up the income wealth spectrum,
people want like three times more than
they have now is what seems like the
amount that's going to keep you happy.
So if you have $10,000, people are like,
"Once I have 20, then I'll be good." And
if you have $20 million, people are
like, "Ah, 40 seems like the right
amount." It's always two or three times
what you have.
>> And that's just the intentional creation
of an expectation gap. It's like
creating misery for yourself.
>> Yes. It's this idea that like if only I
had a little bit more money, then these
problems that I have, this anxiety, this
unfilled hole that I have will finally
be filled. And it's a it's a lie we tell
ourselves, of course.
>> And everyone listening right now has
that. Everyone has a number in your head
where you think if I got there,
>> then it'd be I I have that. You have
that. We all do. And if you and I have
met that number, previous versions of
that number, it's the same thing. We're
like, "Okay, but double would be great.
Double double would be awesome." I met
someone the other day whose income,
annual income is almost exactly 2x mine.
We were being very open with you. Gee,
he's a good friend of mine. And the
instant feeling I had, I didn't say
this, but the instant feeling I had was
like, "Okay, if I had that, everything
would be great." And it's it's absurd.
We do that all day. And I'm sure if my
friend met someone whose income was 2x
of his,
>> he would be like, "That's the level.
That's the one."
>> Because your overheads go up, but then
your competition comparison group also
increases. So you're now poorer in a
different class of comparison. Like
Yeah. You're like when you bought that
new house you just bought.
>> Yeah.
>> That must have moved you to a new
neighborhood.
>> And there's houses in the neighborhood
nicer than ours.
>> My wife and I talk about them.
>> Really?
>> It's absurd. Now I I think I'm I think
because I write about this stuff, I
think I'm a little bit better at
catching myself in those moments, but I
won't pretend that I don't have those
moments. They're almost unavoidable.
>> What has worked for you? Is there
anything that has actually worked for
you in terms of
detaching you from comparison and what
people think? Is there anything at all
that's worked?
>> I like this term humble bubble. I want
to live in a humble bubble. It has to be
humble because I don't want to live in a
bubble where I I don't have empathy for
other people. I want to take in the
experience of others so I can try to
understand the world that I live in. But
I want to live in a bubble in the sense
of like I want my expectations not to
leave my own house. Easier said than
done. But when my expectations don't
leave my own house, I'm like, I want
good health for myself. I want happy
kids. I want a good marriage. And those
things don't leave my roof. Once my
expectations leave my bubble, my once
once they expand outside of my house,
I'm like, "Oh, look at his house. I want
It's like I just wanted I always think
about that humble bubble of like the
only thing that's going to make me happy
exists underneath my roof." And I know
that. And as soon as my aspirations are
for are leave that, I know it's just
going to spin out of control. I I I try
to think about that a lot. And as I
mentioned before, the idea of if nobody
was watching, what would I care about?
That's that's the most powerful exercise
to me. If nobody could see anything that
I was doing, what how would I choose to
live? I've always wanted to counter um
this point with some thinking which is
but if I put myself in a higher status
position I'm going to get more
opportunities which means more money
which is then going to better allow me
to focus on utility. Not that that's how
it ever plays out for anybody.
>> Yeah.
>> But the thinking is well actually status
does equal revenue.
>> Yeah.
>> In a lot of the world
>> and revenue can give you independence.
>> Yeah.
>> The the I think that's right. I think to
many extent that's been my goal. How can
I be successful in my career so that I
can make enough money to not have to
work in the career anymore? Like it's
not that stark, but it's kind of like
that. The flaw in it is that I like
writing. You like podcasting.
>> And so if we get more successful like I
I'm not I'm not chasing success so that
I can stop doing what I'm doing. I just
want to do things that I enjoy.
>> We have a closing tradition where the
last leaves a question for the next as
you know. Um do you have major regrets
in life? Then it says, "They prove no
real purpose. Do you still have
regrets?"
>> Nothing huge.
There are some regrets. I was thinking
about this the other day. My wife and I,
we have two kids and we're done having
kids.
>> And there's part of me that's like, what
would have life been like if we had four
kids, three kids? We if we done that,
like each both of my kids have given me
so much meaning and purpose. And I
wonder what a life would have been like
if I just had fed more. And I I can't
imagine having just one kid. I can't
imagine just having zero kids, but
there's an alternative life in which I
had four or five kids. And you know,
life gets crazy at that point. And
that's not a regret, but you realize
like once you've kind of closed that
door on your life, you're like, man,
what would have life been if I had done
it if I had done it differently because
it's given me more purpose than anything
that I ever could have imagined and I
could have had more. And maybe it would
have been worse, but I I I wonder what
that would have been. I think it's not
until you've we've chosen to close that
door, that chapter of our life, that
we're like, man, what if we had what if
I had done it a little bit differently.
>> Do you wish you had frozen embryos?
>> No.
>> Because that would have kept the door
open theoretically.
>> Not really, because I think there is a
point of like you want you need youthful
energy to be a parent. I I I couldn't
imagine having a newborn at 50 or 60. I
just I think you need the energy of a
30-year-old or 25 or a 30-year-old to do
that. And it's not a regret because I'm
very satisfied with the the family that
I have now. But it's one of those things
of like you realize you're there's an
infinite number of paths your life can
go down and we could have had no kids.
We could have had four kids. We chose
this path, but it's one of just one.
It's one of multiple paths that it could
have gone down.
>> Morgan, thank you. Thank you for doing
what you do. You're my favorite author
of all time and I think I've told you
this before, but it's the way that you
write. I find it so unbelievably
engaging. You the message within your
book is a profound one. All of your
books are profound ones, but it's
actually the way that you tell the
stories. And if anybody's listened to
you speak today, they'll understand
exactly what I mean. Your books are a
mirror of that. Um, the psychology of
money, as I told you before, is the book
that changed my financial life. The one
book my brother, who's a very smart
person, told me to re to read. And
there's no wonder that it's one of the
bestselling books of all time. I think
it might be the bestselling book of all
time in its category. Um, and your new
book, The Art of Spending, continues on
the same trend. Incredibly accessible,
incredibly engaging, incredibly human,
but within there, there's a profound
lesson that stands the chance of
changing our lives for the better. So, I
highly recommend everybody goes and gets
this book, The Art of Spending Money,
which comes out tomorrow,
>> October 7th.
>> October 7th. So, I'm going to link it
below for anybody that wants to grab a
copy of this book. book. And if you're
someone that does want a happier life,
it is a book about spending, but it's
also more broadly a book about happiness
and regret. And it tells stories that
allow you to make better decisions in
your life. And it's through stories, not
through frameworks alone or data that I
think we're most influenced. And you can
probably relate to this if you're
listening to this. You probably have
heard stats before. You probably know
you should save. But it's sometimes
hearing real stories from real people
that stick into your amygdala and create
that behavioral change. And that's
exactly how Morgan writes. He writes
through the context of great stories
that stand a chance of changing your
life. So, it's a wonderful, wonderful
book to read and I highly recommend you
do.
>> Thanks so much for having me.
>> Thank you so much, Morgan. Hope to see
you again sometime soon.
>> Likewise.
[Music]
[Music]