weight shift could be ruining your golf
game in this video I'm going to explain
why that's the case and then what you
should actually be doing instead so
there's lots of different terms that we
hear weight pressure Force Ground Force
reactions all these terms but in this
video I want to keep it really really
simple I want to break it down into four
different elements setup back swing
transition and kind of Ding and then
impact now I've got an eyon in my hand
and I know many of you are already
thinking is this going to be the same
with driver it isn't so we're going to
touch on driver at the end of the video
so let's start with just setup and what
we should actually be doing when we set
up to the golf ball with an iron so I'm
just going to get myself set up I want
you to place your feet in position just
stand up nice and vertically and I want
you to try and find a 5050 point so
where you're perfectly balanced and you
might need to kind of just rock back and
forth in order to find that and you'll
notice that when good player sets up to
the ball they often kind of have these
little movements in their feet which is
them sort of trying to find that balance
point so once I found this kind of 50/50
Point using my knees my thighs and my
hips I want to move them slightly
towards the Target and what that's going
to do is it's going to put a little bit
more weight or pressure into my lead
side now you might not even be able to
see that it's such a subtle move but
what it does is it just makes my lead
hip slightly higher it puts a little bit
more weight through my lead side and
that's how want to start now I don't
want you to think of numbers here or
percentages I just want you to find that
50/50 point and have a little bit more
weight on your lead side key thing here
my head isn't moving so when I do that
in
posture watch my
head doesn't move I don't want to be
moving my
weight by moving my head yes that puts
more weight here but it throws my body
shape out going to get into a lot of
issues from there so we're going to go
50/50 you can do that with your little
kind of waggle between both feet and
then thighs knees hips are going to go
slightly towards the Target and that's
how I want to start that is different
with driver as I say we'll come to that
at the end of the video right you're all
in a perfect setup position we can start
to get into the goal thing and when we
talking back swing this is when we
really see the big difference I really
want you to focus on how you're
moving
pressure pressure is different to weight
if you're trying to move your weight you
could be getting yourself into a whole
world of trouble let's talk pressure so
pressure is what you're putting through
the ground so think of it this way as I
stand here I'm exerting some pressure on
the ground okay if we could measure that
it would have a number if I was to jump
in the air at some point I would be
increasing that pressure because I'm
pushing down to push myself up so
pressure is what we do effectively to
the ground now what we're going to see
with great players
is in the back swing by the time their
lead arm gets level with the ground in
the back swing they have shifted the
most amount of pressure that they will
into that trail foot I'm going to teach
you how to do that what I see so
commonly and this is the bit that really
gets golfers into all sorts of trouble
is they often search for this feeling of
weight now if I said to you at the top
of your goaling where should your weight
be
what would you say maybe drop into the
comments if you said at the top of your
goling your weight should be on your
back leg unfortunately you're incorrect
okay many golfers are searching for that
feeling so what I will see is a very
static first move away and then towards
the latter part of the GOL swing the
golf was kind of searching for that
feeling of weight on the back leg now
I've definitely got my weight on the
back leg here but it happened late and
there was a sway
what great golfers do is they move
pressure which is different as we've
already explained and they move it
earlier now when we take a look at some
goling I'm going to put Adam Scott on
the screen here I'm going to put Rory
macro on the screen what you will see is
if we put a little Mark on the lead hip
what do they do in the first part of
their back swing they actually move
slightly laterally away from that line
and it's early why are they doing that
because they're moving pressure into
that trail side so it builds early and
one of the biggest differences I could
really stress to you today is good
players move pressure earlier poorer
players tend to move weight later big
difference okay and we're going to
explain as we go through this video how
it all kind of has this knock on effect
so here's a great little exercise I want
to do which is going to feel get to feel
pressure and then going to show you how
you can make a back swing with it take a
setup okay we can go in our slightly
more lead side take the golf club hold
it in both hands start it a foot in
front of the ball move it a foot behind
the ball a foot and a foot and I'm doing
that with my core with my chest my core
my arms are doing nothing they're just
staying connected to my body now as I do
this there is no pressure changing in my
feet and there is no weight moving but
as I start to make this movement more
well if I start to speed it up and I
start to get this change of direction of
the club more
aggressive I appreciate you can't see
this but I can feel
instantly more things happening in my
feet that's pressure now when you look
at that you're not seeing me physically
go one way or the other way but because
I'm moving an object I'm having to use
my feet to do that it's one of the best
exercises I found to give someone that
kind of Eureka moment of that's what
pressure feels like so what we can
actually
do is do that and then continue our
swing until our lead arm is level the
ground so we go for forward and back
starting slow we build up the speed as I
build up the speed I really start to
feel that pressure changing in my feet
and from
there I go halfway back and I guarantee
if you do that and we could measure it
we would see your pressure shifting to
that trail side early which is what you
want we might see a tiny bit of lateral
movement what we wouldn't see is this
static move away and then this lunge
into that trail side at the top when we
have that moving late we are just in a
whole world of trouble your sequence is
out it's almost impossible then to
create the right weight shift on the way
down now taking that into a goal swing
what you can actually do to hit balls
and I kind of love this little exercise
I'll probably show you a little closer
with this in a moment take a setup
little bit of weight here and then this
Trail heel just literally lift it off
the ground a tiny bit okay just a tiny
bit and actually what you're going to do
to start your goling is you're going to
plant
it plant it okay and what that's doing
is it's kind of creating this little bit
of a bump to the right to plant that
there's your pressure stoping your left
hand is level with the ground I'm going
to hit a little shot doing this so you
can see so heal up plant
it now what I said a moment ago was I
asked you where I where you thought the
weight
was at the end of the back swing and I
said if you said the trail side you were
incorrect here's why because once that
press pressure builds into that trail
side and we said when the lead arm is
level the ground that's at its most
extreme from there we actually start to
shift it back towards the target so when
we measure sort of pressure at the top
of the goal
swing it's not a million miles away from
50/50 because what we're doing is we're
building it early as we transition from
back swing to down think it's already
started to move back towards the Target
and then in transition into the down
swing this time when your lead arm is
level with the ground on the way down
the pressure should be at its maximum
underneath this lead side this is
something I posted on socials and it's
just me hitting an iron and it's giving
you a visual
representation of where the pressure is
in the goling at various points and
you'll see kind of what we've spoken
about there that it's early into that
trail side at the top it's not a million
miles away from level and then it's
early into that lead side
so what we can do is we can sort of say
building early we're starting to
transition back and then we're getting
into that lead side early and when we
look at Adam Scott and Rory again what
we said was they had this little bump
across okay this little bump to Trail
side but when they get to the top of the
goal swing and the club finishes moving
they are already back to that starting
point simply because they've started
that process of going into that lead
side good golfers get pressure into the
lead side sooner than poor golfers so if
you're struggling with strike contact
distance consistency there's a good
chance that you're not getting your
weight or pressure to the lead side
early enough this is how we do it so
once I'm
going lead on here I then want to feel
like I take the pressure from this
leg and move it to this leg by the same
point on the way down and this is the
next little exercise i' have you do
you're going to go build under the right
build under the left build them to the
right build them to the left and then
eventually you can start to blend this
together and I might be making this a
little more exaggerated than what would
be
normal but you can see how I'm building
under the right building under the left
and in transition a little bit of a lift
of this heel is not a bad thing because
what that's going to do is it's going to
give me that little
trigger that we used on the back swing
but this time to start down so let's go
ahead this time I'm going to go ahead
and focus on build under here build
under here heal up build
build and I'm only hitting
these you know 100 yards through the air
but I'm starting to get that pressure
moving and my head is staying still
which is really really key now at
impact what are we looking for well when
we build the pressure into this lead
side early it should stay there we
should never back it up we should never
move more forward so if we were to say
we've got the majority of our pressure
under here halfway down we want it there
at impact that is where it might be and
it probably will be different with the
driver so let's grab the driver and I'll
show you so the big stick it's just
started to rain but I'm going to push
through so I apologize if any little
spots end up on the lens but I think
we'll be okay it's quite light at the
moment driver is different okay it will
be different it will feel different you
will have different reactions happening
through the go thing I want to explain
quickly why it's different and it's all
to do with stance width and where your
kind of center of mass is Center of mass
is basically the middle of you so let's
say it's around about kind of here as a
as a visual reference point if I was to
goone one foot My Lead Foot where is my
center of mass relative to my foot it's
pretty much directly above it so if I
was to put pressure through the ground
where would it push me it would push me
straight up okay because this is above
this
if I was to take an incredibly wide
stance I appreciate we would never play
golf this way where is my center of mass
relative to my lead foot well it's no
longer above it it's now behind it if we
put sort of a line from my foot through
that Center of mass it's behind it so
when I push into this lead foot now it
doesn't push me up it pushes
me back it pushes me basically in this
direction based on that angle and
obviously the opposite would be the case
if I pushed through my right foot it
would would be pushing me forwards so
with the driver we generally have a
wider stance I would like you to have a
wider stance everything is the same in
terms of the initial move away pressure
early pressure early however when we
build that pressure under this lead fo
in the down swing what do we do we push
where is that going to push me it's
going to push me back so very very often
with the driver in some of the greatest
drivers of the golf balls that we've
ever seen we actually see through impact
the head going slightly backwards and if
we can measure pressure we sometimes see
that pressure going from the lead foot
to the trail foot now that's not because
they're hanging back on this foot it's
simply the process of getting into that
lead side pushing and it having them
push you back but why is that a good
thing what does it do to the attack
angle makes it more positive which is
really good it actually accelerates the
clip head because it has an effect on
the handle which is really positive so
it's something that we don't want to
avoid so I'd hate for you to pick up an
iron do some practice and then search
for those feelings with the driver it's
going to be different here's an exercise
I love with driver that's going to get
you that
feel set up inside okay and this is a
little exercise you can do at the
driving range you're going to go build
build push so we go build
it build
it
push and I'm pushing all off that foot
and actually lifting it off the ground
so show that again so we go
build
build push okay and what it's going to
do is it's going to get you to really
feel that big push through impact
pushing you up pushing you back which is
really beneficial with driver not so
much with irons but with irons we don't
need to worry about it because we are
already a little bit more on top of our
lead side so that push just pushes us up
with the driver it pushes us back so if
you've got a wide stance R driver and I
would love you to you're going to see
more of this than you would if you had a
narrower stance so let me show what that
would look like in
practice I'm going to do this as a drill
to begin with I go heel up build it
early transition it
early and then push back and that's how
we get the most out of driver so if
you're moving weight you're doing
yourself an injustice you could be
ruining your game focus on pressure
understand how that moves and how it
might be different with I in compared to
driver