So, Michael Nolles exposes this
professor point blank to her face live
on stage. She accuses him that his
speech is violence.
I I'm faculty here. I also support our
support our um protester in the back.
There's a student in the back with a
sign claiming hate speech equals
violence. First, we don't know what hate
speech is. That cannot be legally
defined.
Yes. Because of the reason that speech
is violence.
Uh no. I think that
that's what that sign says.
The conversation that you're having is
oppressive.
So, there's the claim. the conversation
you're having is oppressive.
Um, and
so I am oppressing people by what I'm
doing. I am I am exerting violence on
people by my speech. That's what the
sign says and that's what you just said.
It contributes to
and the protester is saying that's
exactly what I'm doing. And she's saying
that's exactly what her sign means. So
that means that you, a faculty member at
an American public university paid for
by taxpayer dollars are conflating
speech with violence.
Your speech.
Yes. And this is a real problem because
this is what drives people to enact
violence because they believe that they
are genuinely legitimately contending
with violence and that's what leads to
acts like what we saw with Charlie Kirk.
Um speech can be violent. What you are
saying contributes to systemic racism in
this country. It means that my students
of color are pulled over and accused of
stealing a car when they did not.
Perhaps you did have a student that was
unfairly pulled over or accused of
something. There's no direct correlation
between an event like that and what
Michael Nolles is saying. Now,
I'm not pulling anybody over for
stealing any I see many people of many
different races in this room. I I they
all seem to be doing just fine. I don't
think I any any of them have felt
violence because they listened to a
lecture on on basic facts about our
immigration system.
Someone in the back shouts out a
question here. Are you there to ask us
if we felt violence or are you just
assuming that we have?
It's silly to even propose that he would
need to ask the audience, have I
committed violence with because you
can't commit violence with speech like
this.
The question was, have I asked people in
this room if they've felt as though some
violence has been committed on them? No,
I haven't asked because no violence has
been committed on you. You can't just
decide what violence is subjectively. It
is an objective line that the law can
identify whether or not has it has been
crossed. when you are calling for
violence that is crossing the the line.
This is the foundation of liberal
education. If you cannot understand that
there is a difference between speech and
violence, you don't understand anything
that undergurs the liberal arts or
liberal education.
I've been to art school for eight years.
I understand liberal arts extremely
well. I am an artist.
I went to art school. I shouldn't say
this out loud, but I went to art school
for longer than eight years. And I can
tell you I didn't learn anything about
politics or the definition of fascism or
anything really tangible. Only the
philosophy of Marxism in how art is used
in power dynamics. So I'm not sure how
this is relevant.
And I don't think you do. I'm sure
you've been to art school for 8 years,
but you do not understand the sign which
says disrupting speech is fascism. You
are
No. No. The sign says anti Oh. Oh, that
one. Disrupting speech. Yeah. But you
understand?
Yes. These people who are yelling are
disrupting my speech and I agree it's
fascism.
There's a deep irony here because the
hecklers in the audience are disrupting
speech. So you kind of just cornered
yourself with your own definition which
is a flawed definition. Just disrupting
speech does not equal fascism that could
be a component, an aspect, a
characteristic of fascism. It's a form
of wrong behavior. So I have this new
sponsor that I'm genuinely really
excited about. Bare skin tactical. Smart
people are locking in their winter gear
right now while it's on sale. Bare skin
is running a 60% off deal right now, but
only if you get your hoodie early, which
is the hoodie I'm wearing right now.
This hoodie is built like a tank. 340
GSM microfleece 10 pockets with a clean,
rugged fit that looks awesome. It zips
right into the heavy storm rain jacket
to become 100% waterproof when you need
it. So when it turns cold, wet, and
windy, you're not scrambling last
minute. You'll get free US shipping,
fast delivery, and you've locked in your
winter gear already. It's a win-win. Do
yourself a favor. Text the word Warren
to 36912
to lock in your 60% off. Again, text
Warren to 36912.
You'll get a link sent straight to your
phone so you can check it out later if
you're busy right now. When you buy Bare
Skin, you are supporting the Fallen
Outdoors and the Hope for the Warriors
veterans program. So, you're not just
buying cool gear, but you're also
backing a cause that's important. Don't
wait till you're freezing to realize
your hoodie sucks. Get a bare skin now
while it's 60% off. Text Warren to
36912.
The other day I was at the University of
Missouri Kansas City. Some protester
attacked me with some weird chemical
that was an objective act of violence.
A few days earlier, Michael Nolles was
giving a similar speech to a crowd of
college students and it goes off the
rails very quickly. Well, it's very
difficult to use my platform when people
use the heckler's veto to try to shut up
any opinion that visibly
[Applause]
that gentleman just threw paint on.
Guess what's going to happen next?
They're going to start chanting, "Hands
up, don't shoot." as though there's a
real threat that the police might just
draw down on them and start firing.
[Applause]
[Music]
I don't know what the substance is.
[Music]
I'm fine. And I don't know what this is.
I think someone someone threw milk on me
or something. I don't really know.
This is what I mean when I describe how
the power of stories and people getting
captured by a narrative. And the core
law of narrative is that conflict drives
story. The stories that are most
compelling have the highest stakes. What
could be more high stakes than feeling
like an eternal victim that needs to
shout, "Hands up, don't shoot.
[Music]
And
this is really interesting cuz you have
students trying to come back in like
they haven't gotten enough. It's like
zombies. The police just keep pushing
them out. This herd.
That's what happens when you assault
people, by the way, folks. That's what
happens.
In this example, we have a clear
objective line that was crossed. This is
not speech. This is action.
I got some sort of paint all over my
speech.
[Music]
So, let's keep in mind those words that
that professor stated earlier.
Disrupting speech is fascism.
Disruption of speech is fascism. Well,
according to your logic, who are the
fascists in this scenario?
Shame.
Shame.
Oh, they're these kids are really
proving me wrong. Just reminds me of
that scene in Game of Thrones. It's like
the people yelling shame are the bad
guys. Socialism and communism and
fascism kind of tied together in this
fantasy world. This false prophet
wielding the masses for power. It's an
interesting archetype.