I want justice for Justin, but I also
want the tea, honey.
Hello, my friend. It is Perez, the queen
of all media, the original influencer,
and your number one source for
everything it ends with us saga.
And being the number one source for
everything it ends with us saga means I
put in a lot of work. I read every
single filing that has entered all of
the court dockets.
And at first when I got to today's order
from Judge Lyman about the sealing and
unsealing of filings, I thought, uh,
whatever, let me skim through this. And
I was reading it and then oh my god,
remember a few weeks ago when Bruha
Blake filed a request for attorneys fees
and she cited that new California law
47.1,
the one that's not been tested in the
courts.
and she wants this California law
applied in New York and for this federal
judge to be the first person to issue
anything in a court with regards to it.
Section 47.1 is meant to protect real
victims of SH and SA
real victims.
But any sh that Blake Pini has suffered
is all alleged. Nothing has been proven
true yet.
And accompanying her move for attorneys
fees citing this new California law, she
included a declaration from somebody who
made bold allegations against Justin
Baldoni.
We don't know who because that person
was redacted. But whomever that is, the
person did not work on it ends with us.
We know that. And
they alleged that he was verbally
abusive and toxic
briefly because it's short.
Remember this. It's short, but it says
that this person redacted declaration of
we don't know. I had repeated negative
interactions with Mr. Baldoni and his
associates, including verbal abuse by
Mr. Baldoni.
And things got so bad that Mr. Belon was
not permitted on set during the majority
of production as a result of those
experiences.
Boom. In fact, the person requested that
Beldoni not be involved in blank
marketing or public relations efforts.
Now, Justin and the Wayfairer parties
know who this person is, but we the
public don't.
Suela no chill filed a motion to seal
the identity of the person who gave this
declaration and just earlier today Judge
Lyman said no.
It was preliminarily sealed but it will
be unmasked. We will find out the
identity of this accuser.
Why? Judge Lyman says on September 15,
2025, Lively filed her own motion for
continued sealing of portions of her
memorandum of law, the accompanying
declaration and exhibit one, which is an
audio recording of a conversation
between declarant and defendant Steve
Sorrowitz.
Lively requests that these documents
remain under seal because they reveal
the identity of the declarant who has
alleged prior experiences of verbal
abuse by defendant Justin Baldoni.
Lively asserts that the declarance
privacy interests outweigh any
presumption of public access and that
there is no public interest in exposing
the declarant to possible online
scrutiny and attacks given that the
substance of the relevant information is
already in the record.
I mean, I don't wish any harm, threats,
nasty comments upon anyone, but I want
to know who this is.
Lyman says the Wayfairer parties oppose
continued sealing on the grounds that
the memorandum of law selectively quotes
from the audio recording and that
Sorrowitz should be allowed to have the
recording be made public to ensure
accuracy and provide context.
Seems very sensible to me.
The Supreme Court and Second Circuit
have long held that there is a
presumption of immediate public access
to judicial documents under both the
common law and the first amendment.
Whether a document qualifies as judicial
and is therefore subject to the
presumption of public access is a binary
decision made as of the time of the
documents filing i.e. filed material
either is or is not a judicial document
depending on whether it could have a
tendency to influence the court in the
exercise of its article 3 powers.
God,
it this is actually
I am so
curious who this accuser is because the
judge has given this considerable
attention.
This order is about many requests to
seal or unseal
and this is a big chunk of it.
This presumption, the judge continues,
that we, the people, should have access
to these documents, is especially strong
where the materials are filed in
connection with dispositive motions such
as motions to dismiss and motions for
summary judgement. Courts have also
applied the strong presumption in the
context of motions for sanctions given
that these motions too determine
litigants substantive rights.
Okay,
you can see where he's going here. The
judge then cites a lot of case law
where the presumption is at its peak.
Lyman continues, "Continued sealing of
the documents may be justified only with
specific on thereord findings that
sealing is necessary to preserve higher
values and only if the ceiling order is
narrowly tailored to achieve that aim."
Courts have found that one of these
higher values is protecting significant
and substantial privacy interests such
as the physical safety of litigants,
witnesses or third parties. Sensible.
Other relevant considerations include
the sensitivity of the information and
the subject, whether the information is
unverified, and whether the nature of
the materials is such that there is a
fair opportunity for the subject to
respond to any accusations contained
therein. A generalized concern of
adverse publicity is not however
sufficiently compelling reason to
outweigh the presumption of access for
us.
Furthermore, although the privacy
interests of innocent third parties
should weigh heavily in a court's
balancing equation, courts often
consider whether a nonparty
[Music]
has voluntarily chosen to participate in
the case as happened here with the
declaration of this unknown accuser
against Baldoni.
Voluntarily
Lively's underlying motion seeks fees
and costs and trouble and punitive
damages against the wayfairer parties.
This is the kind of motion to which a
strong presumption of public access
applies and the privacy interest Lively
has identified namely that of the
declarance identity is insufficient
to overcome that presumption of access.
Although the court is cognizant of the
mediadriven nature of this case, the
declarance identity is not the kind of
information traditionally considered
private rather than public.
parenthesis
citing case law that says medical and
information about minors are among the
types of information traditionally
considered private,
not this accusation of verbal abuse
against Baldoni.
That the accuser is about to be public.
The judge says the declarance identity
is also not unverified
and preventing the disclosure of exhibit
one. The audio recording would limit a
fair opportunity for the subject to
respond to any accusations contained
therein as Lively has quoted only
portions of the recording. The nonparty,
moreover, has voluntarily
participated in this case by submitting
a declaration detailing certain
accusations against parties. The court
therefore orders docket numbers for 748,
7482,
and 7483
unsealed.
And there's an interesting footnote
here. It says although the Wayfairer
parties assert that they have no
opposition to sealing the declarance
name docket number 786 at two the audio
recording reveals the declarance
identity. So maintaining the
individual's name under seal would be an
empty formality.
The rest is not that exciting. Oh, we
got to seal this because it has
information about the locations of
upcoming depositions, blah blah blah
blah blah. Hopefully, we'll find out the
identity of the Belon accuser ASAP.
As soon as we do, you know who will let
you know the identity. Unmasking,
not doxing. Some voluntary person got
involved in this.
Juicy.
You know what else is also juicy and so
chic? My merch. I have team truth. Grab
your friends, wear your florals, fram
merch, team Perez, and so much more.
Check it all out at bypopstuff.com.
That's bypopstuff.com.
And making personalized videos brings
such joy to me. It truly makes me happy
to make cameos for you all. Book one
right now on the Cameo website at
cameo.com/p
to the e to the r to the e to the z to
the h to the i to the l to the t to the
o to the n. Also stay informed and
entertained and get an exclusive podcast
a week on our Patreon. Sign up right now
at patreon.com/p
to the e to the r to the e to the e to
the h to the i to the l to the t to the
o to the n. If you watched until the
end, you are a superstar. The 1%. Thank
you. Watching until the end is the most
meaningful way to support your favorite
creators. If you want to support even
more, hit that like button, share this
video, and
say surprise in the comment section, cuz
I'm surprised that the judge ruled the
way that he did.
Surprise in the comments section. Are
you surprised?
Who could it possibly be? There are some
theories, but nothing confirmed
obviously until the identity is revealed
publicly, which should happen shortly.
Thoughts on anything and everything at
that ends with us saga? Let's discuss it
all in the comments. And remember
surprise mah.