movement that hurts most golfers is
coming in towards an impact position
where you are flipping the golf club.
And by definition, a flip essentially
just means that when you're hitting the
golf ball, the club head overtakes the
hands. And what you're looking for is
for the hands to lead the club head.
When the club head overtakes the hands,
the club is going to be susceptible to
kind of moving to the left hand side.
You're going to do things like add loft
towards the club. And obviously
nowadays, we should all know that
there's a huge correlation between
distance and your handicap. So if you're
a flipper, this would be defining your
handicap ability. So the question
ultimately is why? Why are you flipping?
And the answer is actually relatively
straightforward and pretty simple. The
answer lies very much in your trail
upper arm, this bit here. So if I sort
of stood in front of you, bent my arm at
90Â° and did this motion. This is known
as an external rotation. This is a key
movement with inside the golf swing. uh
the golf swing in terms of the back
swing should be triggered by an external
rotation and then there'll be a little
bit more external rotation in the top of
the back swing. So if I sort of stood
here and did this, this is the amount of
external rotation that will happen when
I'm at the top of the back swing like
so. Now what I'm going to do is if I
stood here, I'm going to do that
external rotation. I'm going to do upper
body rotation. That gets me into this
position. Okay. Now, as I then start the
down swing, all I have to focus on is
moving my upper arm nicely to the side
of my body.
And what you'll notice is the way that
my right forearm points very much up to
the sky. And when I'm doing this kind of
motion, even really without any lower
body rotation, you can see the way that
my hands are always going to be leading
the club head. If you are somebody who
is flipping, what is happening is that
you are probably not producing enough
external rotation in the back swing. So,
instead of looking this way, you look
more this way. And then as you come
down, you certainly don't rediscover
enough external rotation and right arm
adduction coming down. So the question
is how do you resolve it and what's the
simple way? Well, this is why inside my
teaching, I'm a huge advocate for
external rotation inside the first move.
I don't personally see the benefit in
having a takeaway which looks this way
because you're going to have to do
external rotation much later. it makes
much more sense to do the external
rotation inside the first movement as
you then couple upper body rotation. The
reason why from this position it's much
easier to move your arms this way. If
you're in this position, you've got to
do a lot of rrooting. Hence why it won't
happen. Hence why you're struggling to
get rid of the flip. I see.