I did the experiment so I did 90 days of
carnivore and the couple of interesting
things happened I've dropped 6% body fat
meaning a total of 6% body fat reduction
during the 90 days and I didn't even
realize that I needed to lose those 6%
body fat but my body did it so I got
really lean my abs got more defined I
lost 16 lbs in the 90 days as well so 6%
body fat 16 lbs everything in my gut
microbiome improved my diversity
improved not just that seven core
bacteria showed up on my day 90 test
that did not show up on day one and five
Keystone bacteria showed up on day 90
that was not there on day one doing the
complete opposite of what most people
think you need to do to improve gut
health so overall my HRV improved my
deep sleep improved I got more REM sleep
which is more for rapid eye movement
sleep more for memory processing
short-term memory to long-term memory so
my LDL on day one I believe was around
250 which was still pretty highz so I
was still doing more of a keto saturated
fat approach on day 90 it went up to
350 super high oh my gosh however when
it comes to the ketogenic diet what are
the biggest mistakes you see people
making that are sabotaging the results
well the biggest mistake is looking at
it as a diet although keto technically
can be a diet it's more of a metabolic
process so I think a lot of people who
go into keto Jesse they go into it
looking to lose weight I'm going to use
this as a DI to lose weight and yes it
could help you do that for sure but I
think a lot of people don't know that
it's actually a metabolic process that
we're all designed to use ketones are
simply a byproduct of burning stored fat
and there's nothing new about keto it's
just new or Nuance to some people but
it's been around for as long as humans
have existed as a matter of fact it's
one of the reasons why we exist today
because our ancestors didn't have food
readily available right so they had to
rely on their energy their body fat as a
fuel source and then they produce
ketones to fuel the brain to get through
those those times of famine so a big
mistake is going into it thinking that
it's just going to be used for a diet
and it's not going away because it's a
metabolic process another big mistake
people make is they eat the wrong fats
on keto just because a food is
ketofriendly doesn't necessarily make it
healthy or health friendly so I see a
lot of people who do keto and they're
eating these inflammatory fats you've
done a lot of interviews on your show on
this topic of seed oils and these seed
oils are all over the place they're in
about 80% of our food supply in the
United States but in the keto space a
lot of people eat them because they're
ketofriendly they're fats but they're
highly unstable and arguably more
inflammatory than if you didn't do keto
and ate a whole bunch of processed sugar
and the reason I say that is because
these polyunsaturated fats these
vegetable oils they stay stuck in your
body for a very long time the halflife
is about 680 days this means if we
stopped eating these bad fats today and
I'll give your audience an entire list
in a minute if we stopped eating them
today about two years later Jesse half
of them will still be in our body fat
around our cell membranes our
mitochondrial membranes creating
inflammation which we know leads to
chronic disease insulin resistance
diabetes cancer heart disease a lot of
bad things happen when this when these
fats are stored in your body f
and these fats are very unstable because
of the chemical structure they're called
polyunsaturated fatty acids the word
poly means many so these fats contain
many double bonds the more double bonds
a fat has in its chemical structure the
more reactive and aggressive it attracts
oxygen so the way these fats are
processed are with oxygen and heat and
they react to oxygen and heat not to
mention the chemicals that are put into
these fats and it makes them rancid it
makes them go bad then we eat them we
heat them up and then we eat them and it
makes them even more rancid so it's
similar to biting into an apple leaving
that apple on the counter coming back
two three hours later what happens to
the Apple it turns brown starts to rust
this is similar to what's happening at
our cellular level when we have these
seed oils so the list of them the bad
fats and I'll give the healthier swaps
on keto are going to be canola corn and
cotton seed oil soybean safflower and
sunflower oil rice brand oil and grape
seed oil now I would throw one more into
the mix here Jesse that might be
controversial but I would also throw in
fish oil into the classification of bad
fats although it's not necessarily a
seed oil it's also a polyunsaturated fat
and omega-3 that's very unstable as well
and most fish oil is not processed
properly it's already rancid before we
even consume it and fish oil in general
does more in causes more inflammation
than it does to create anti-inflammation
or lower inflammation so instead on keto
or even if you're not doing keto we want
to swap to saturated and monounsaturated
fats these are much more stable fats
saturated fats contain zero double bonds
very stable it actually makes the the
composition of our cell membranes our
cell membranes which I believe are the
intelligence of our cells contain
saturated fat protein and cholesterol
it's the building blocks of our cells
and then we so that's going to be butter
ghee coconut oil beef Tallow duck fat
these are saturated animal fats
typically with the exception of coconut
oil then we have mono unsaturated fats
which contain one double bond still more
stable than the poly unsaturated fats
these are going to be fruit-based fats
like avocado oil and olive oil these are
better for salad dressings and dips and
that's a big mistake people make on keto
they're eating a lot of keto friendly
foods that contain these these bad fats
so I would say those are the two biggest
mistakes people make going into it
thinking it's a diet but it's a
metabolic process and then eating the
wrong fats you mentioned the length of
time that these bad fats stay in the
body I think you said 2 years or even
longer for somebody that has been
unaware of this or at least not
mindfully eating and avoiding these
anything we can do to speed up that
process and get back to Baseline yeah
it's a great question um and yes the gr
the good news is that you can speed up
the process uh achieving autophagy
activating autophagy helps you get rid
of these bad fats faster of course
autophagy is this cellular cleanup
process where your body goes into this
cleanup mode and the analogy I give for
autophagy is a a refrigerator imagine
this refrigerator you open up that
refrigerator and you have all these
groceries inside of the refrigerator
that all have expiration dates on them
imagine if you left all the groceries in
your fridge let them expire but instead
of throwing away the expired groceries
he kind of just shoved them towards the
back of the fridge buy new groceries put
them in front of the expired groceries
close the door and then come back the
next day and open up that refrigerator
it's going to be nasty it's going to be
a toxic environment the human body is
like this refrigerator we have cells
proteins mitochondria that all have
expiration dates on them autophagy is a
process that's activated through fasting
and exercise and certain supplements
called senolytics that allow your body
to clean out the junk including these
bad fats so fasting is a great way to
clear out some of these bad fats but I
would also add adding in quality fats at
the same time adding in the saturated
fats the monounsaturated fats because as
your body cleans out the cells and
starts replacing things it starts to
replace them with the good fats so if
you combine a f good fasting schedule
with the clean fats you're going to
clean those out much faster than that
2hour uh excuse me two-year half life
when you were talking about bad fats you
brought in fish oil as a specific
example there that we need to be careful
with are there any Brands you've come
across and obviously you have the
fragile nature of these fats that we
can't get around that's just the
structure but different qualities of
fish oil have you found any that for
somebody that's going to include that as
part of their healthy
routine can still be an overall win I'm
a big fan of actually eating the fish as
opposed to taking the fish oil
supplement because you're right Jesse
There are some companies like Carlson's
labs and uh Nordic Nordic Naturals I
believe they're called that process
these fish oils much better they're
testing for heavy metals they're using
cold processing and they do a really
good job and I respect that and it's
preserving that oil in the capsule so
it's not rancid like 83% of them are
usually rancid before you consume it but
some companies do it the right way but
there's a problem there's there's a few
problems here with taking the fish oil
supplement first problem is this fish
oil needs to be stored in cool
temperatures it's essentially
anti-freeze for fish that's what fish
oil is and our human body is really warm
98.6 degrees Fahrenheit so when we take
this quality fat in a fish oil
supplement and we consume it and it
mixes with our stomach acid it mixes
with our warm body temperature converts
it to a bad fat that's one problem
another problem Jesse is the amount of
EPA and DHA that people are taking from
fish oil and that's the main reason why
we take it because EPA and DHA are
anti-inflammatory omega-3 fats great for
the eyes great for the brain great for
overall inflammation but the body
doesn't need that much EPA and d uh
according to the National Institutes of
Health the a a a male um human person a
male at six foot tall is only they only
require about 7.2 milligrams of EPA each
day for the brain one capsule of fish
oil on average is about a th000
milligrams of EPA and DHA people are
taking one two three four capsules per
day it's a super physiological overdose
of fish oil of EPA and DHA and what this
does it creates a fluid leaky cell
membrane where that's not good we don't
want a rigid cell membrane where things
can't get in like hormones and nutrients
and we don't want too fluid of a
membrane because it starts to disrupt
the mitochondria and the processes for
the mitochondria
if you if we just ate small fatty fish
salmon sardines and chovies the smaller
the fish the better less toxins if we
just ate fish at least once a week we
would get enough EPA and DHA to to
thrive to get all the benefits that we
need from it so I don't take him
arguably um there is a short-term
benefit to taking some EPA and DHA
especially for somebody who is deprived
and they have such a high Omega 6 to
omega-3 balance uh but long term it's a
problem and there was a study done by
the Cochran collaboration the Cochran
collaboration does a really good job at
looking all of the studies done on a
certain a supplement or Topic in this
case it was on fish oil and they
reviewed thousands of studies because
there are some studies showing benefits
to fish oil and their studies showing
that it could be harmful and their
studies showing that it does nothing and
at the end of this study it showed the
Cochran collaboration and we could put
in the notes that there's pretty much no
benefits to taking fish oil and it could
actually be harmful that was their
conclusion right so I'm a fan of fish
oil when it's in the fish I'm a fan of
vegetable oil when it's in the vegetable
but I'm not a fan when you extract it
and put into a capsule all right you're
a fan of fish you mentioned once a week
do you feel that should be prescriptive
for people to get enough Omega-3s or do
you feel
getting enough animals in the diet and
things like beef are going to provide
enough Omega-3s through that Source it's
a really good good question and the
answer depends on the quality of the the
beef they're getting right if it's
grass-fed grass finished it'll have a
healthier balance of Omega 6 to omega-3
it'll have more omega-3 fats and
arguably you could probably get away
with uh eating grass-fed grass-finished
red meat and not have to consume the
fish in order to get the healthy
Omega-3s but if you're eating uh great
grain-fed uh meat that's kind of devoid
of these omega-3 fats then you might
need to either have some eggs which also
have uh omega-3 fat F or consume the
fatty fish all right let's talk about
what a typical day of eating is for you
give people the lay of land if keto is
new to them what 24 hours would look
like so what it would look like for
somebody who's new to keto or what it
looks like for me or both well let's do
you first and then we can pivot off that
so I'm a little bit more advanced and
then we'll kind of pivot off of what I'm
doing I I pretty much do Jesse mostly a
carnivore diet and I I would say six
days out of the week Monday through
Saturday I eat animal-based I eat
carnivore so I'm eating steak uh red
meat lamb I'm eating eggs so today for
example right before I hopped on this
interview with you I had eggs with goat
cheese cooked in butter that was my
lunch later on I'll have a piece of
steak uh that's what I typically do
Monday through Saturday now on Sunday I
flex out of keto I flex out of carnivore
and it's actually a higher healthy Carb
Day for me where I have upwards of 300
gram of carbs uh lower fat that day I'll
have some low oxalate vegetabl vbl I'll
have maybe fruit white rice but I've
done the work to kind of build up my
metabolism to do this sort of flex so
it's different what I'm doing versus
somebody who's new so I would say 90% of
the time Jesse I'm carnivore 10% of the
time I flex out that's my current
routine and when it comes to this Flex
piece is that for being social having
diversity within the diet or do you look
at that as an integral piece of
maintaining your health all of that all
of that for sure right the social part
is important right so usually designate
a flex day for a social day or a social
event makes it a lot easier um and the
diversity part is also important uh we
get so used to eating the same Foods
over and over again and we're we're just
not designed to do that we're designed
to eat different types of foods of
course eat in season if you can but
creating a change in your in your
nutrition eating different foods creates
a stress to the gut microbiome which is
a good stress creates more diversity so
I like the change up and then overall
health
I'm a big fan of metabolic flexibility I
think that is the name of the game for
longevity and anti-aging and burning fat
it's this metabolic flexibility which
means our metabolism is designed to burn
whatever substrate is available whether
it's burning carbs sugar fat ketones and
doing both going back and forth right so
I love keto but I'm not a big advocate
of long-term continuous ketosis I'm a
fan of going in and out now 93% of
Americans are stuck burning sugar
they're metabolically inflexible
metabolically handcuffed they have
forgotten how to burn fat they're in a
keto deficiency and they really need
this metabolic process of ketosis so we
use it we get them fat adapted and then
keto adapted which typically takes about
8 to 12 weeks at that point we decide if
we want to flex out and have that higher
healthy carb day where we could remind
the metabolism we have a different fuel
source for this day we're going to burn
sugar instead of fat and then you burn
sugar for a day and then you're back to
burning fat for the rest of the week now
if you've done this the right way like I
have personally after having 300 grams
of carbs on a Sunday Jesse Monday
afternoon I'm right back into ketosis
right that is a sign of metabolic
flexibility I think that is the key also
for longevity as well and for you coming
to this point within your diet and
lifestyle and having this one day of
higher carb was that something you
learned the hard way over the years were
you ever somebody that was ketosis
247 and then had certain challenges and
then pivoted to this or have you always
gone to this more balanced approach I
was definitely dogmatic about keto when
I started doing it for myself and then
teaching it to my clients back in uh
late 2013 is when I got into ketosis at
this time I owned a CrossFit gym here in
Miami so I was training really hard
doing keto uh mineral depleted
electrolyte depleted like all the thing
that like all the things that come with
long-term ketosis and heavy training but
I I thought keto was like the solution I
thought it was the end all be all I was
telling everybody about keto I was
really dogmatic I put myself in a box so
I stuck with it for over a year and I
realized man maybe this is too
aggressive maybe I need to do some
things to change it up and have a day
where I'll have some healthy carbs or
time some carbs before a workout so I
kind of learned through experimenting
with it and then of course working with
um thousands of people and I've taken
over 5,000 people through my keto Camp
Academy I've I've gotten data from them
right so I've learned that women for
example who have a men cycle need to do
more flexing than men men could be more
aggressive and postmenopausal women
could also be more aggressive so it's
always different depending on the person
but I learned the hard way being the
guinea pig and then using data from a
lot of my students from all across the
world all right coming back to the
beginner somebody that this is brand new
you mentioned a number of weeks of
staying in ketosis to become
metabolically flexible how many weeks
was that about 8 to 12 weeks on average
gets you uh what's called keto adapted
and and I'll unpack what I mean by that
so the first goal is to get fat adapted
Jesse as I mentioned 93% of people are
sugar burners they're stuck burning
sugar and glucose highly inflammatory
it'll age you faster than anything else
if you're stuck burning sugar we get
them fat adapted takes about seven to 10
days to get them into a fat burning
State we do this by gradually first step
is gradually decreasing your total
carbohydrates the average person is
consuming about 300 grams of carbs per
day in order order to get into ketosis
and get fat adapted that needs to be
dropped under 50 total grams of carbs
per day for most people but I don't like
doing that in one day I don't like doing
that too quickly because symptoms could
result as a as a result of doing that so
you do a gradual approach of decreasing
your carbs under 50 grams per day you
get there about seven days in and you
start to increase healthy fats like the
fats I mentioned earlier you start to
increase your electrolytes and sea salt
to replenish any minerals or
electrolytes that are lost as you lower
insulin that will happen and then you're
fat adapted and you can verify that by
testing your blood ketones you could use
a machine like a keto Mojo or any kind
of device that tests blood ketones where
you prick your finger draw blood you put
that blood on a strip a ketone strip put
that Ketone strip into the meter and if
you register 0.5 Mill moles per liter or
higher you're in ketosis you're now fat
adapted and most people could get there
in about s to 10 days now this is
different Jesse than being keto adapted
keto adaptation takes about 8 to 12
weeks this is now when when you achieve
keto adaptation it's when your
mitochondria are now primed to use
Ketone ketones as the primary energy
source and something really cool happens
when when you achieve this these ketones
when your mitochondria are using them as
an energy source the ketones act as a
signaling molecule to beneficially
stress the mitochondria to create
mitochondrial biogenesis which is the
creation of new mitochondria healthier
mitochondria which is key for anti-aging
biohacking longevity fat loss just
feeling great and you produce 400% more
ATP energy when you're are keto adapted
versus somebody burning sugar which is
really amazing so one of the first signs
you're going to notice when you're keto
adapted is the mental Clarity this is
the I get from all my students like oh
my gosh like I was feeling good already
doing keto but now I feel like my brain
is on a different level I have this
mental Clarity I'm productive I just
feel really good that's a sign of Keto
adaptation and typically that takes
about 8 to 12 weeks of being in ketosis
to get to that point you mentioned
somebody might want to test along the
way to see if they're in ketosis is
there a certain time a day that we want
to do that test like first thing in the
morning while we're fasted after meal or
does it really matter yeah you know I
like doing it about an hour after waking
up not necessarily first thing in the
morning because we're going to have um a
cortisol response just by waking up with
the sun there's a cortisol response it
could it could alter some of the numbers
but after an hour or so after you wake
up things start to normalize with
cortisol and if you test an hour after
waking up that's a good time to test I
also like testing as you mentioned about
an hour or two after eating so that's
post prandial to make sure you're still
in ketosis and I also like checking
blood sugar levels too and the cool
thing about a machine like the keto Mojo
it gives you both blood glucose and
blood ketones blood sugars are important
thing to check and I'd love to get into
that if you want sure let's continue
yeah so we know that the human body
what's considered an optimal state is
one teaspoon of sugar in the entire
bloodstream that's 80 milligrams per
deciliters when you're testing your
blood sugars whether it's a finger prick
or like a continuous glucose monitor 80
milligrams per deciliter which is one
teaspoon in the bloodstream that's
considered an optimal fasting state if
your blood sugars are higher than that
in a fasted State you're aging faster we
know that excess glucose in the
bloodstream number one strips nitric
oxide from your arteries and from your
body which creates Vaso constriction
which is the narrowing of your arteries
when that happens your heart has to pump
harder and it increases your blood
pressure that leads to high blood
pressure that's a problem we also know
when you have higher levels of blood
sugar you're going to have higher levels
of insulin now insulin and I know you've
interviewed so many amazing people on
your show Jesse we know insulin is a fat
storage energy sensing hormone it's not
a bad hormone unless it's elevated
unless it's called all the time but
insulin is a bully hormone when insulin
is elevated the fat burning hormones are
hiding and here's the thing insulin
levels could be elevated on average for
6 to 14 years before any of the the
blood sugars or even your A1C
changes 6 to 14 years you can have
insulin resistance so I believe one of
the most important test that you can get
for your metabolism for health in
general is a fasting insulin blood test
it's cheap it's easy uh and what it's
going to show you is if you have insulin
resistance in other words
hyperinsulinemia we want our fasting
insulin to be in the single digits 3 to
seven is optimal to hit if you're 12 15
17 you have signs of insulin resistance
if you're over 20 you have full-blown
insulin resistance but your blood sugars
might look fine what's happening is your
body is trying to overcompensate by
producing your pancreas is producing so
much insulin to shuttle out to shuttle
the excess blood glucose out of the
bloodstream but that happens for 16 14
years then all of a sudden your receptor
sites for insulin get burned out and
then blood sugars increase so I love
testing blood sugars I love testing
fasting insulin and one of the things
you could also look at with your blood
sugars is your
postprandial blood sugar levels this
gives you a good sign whether or not you
have insulin resistance so what you want
to do is test your blood sugar levels
right before you have a meal let's say
it's 85 milligrams per deciliters you're
fasted before you eat great blood sugar
level you eat a meal and then an hour
after eating the meal you test the blood
sugars again you want to make sure it's
it doesn't go over 120
2 hours after eating it should go back
to Baseline around 85 in this scenario
that's a good sign that you produced
enough insulin you regulated the glucose
you used it for energy and you're back
to homeostasis but if you see those
blood sugars they elevated two hours
later let's say it's still above a 100
two hours later that's a problem right
and just by looking at your blood sugar
levels you could get a good idea if you
need to make changes or not for somebody
that's somewhere along that Continuum of
insulin resistance all all the way to
type 2
diabetes and they're catching on to what
we're talking about here about going
into ketosis measuring ketones can
somebody who is still on that insulin
resistant
Spectrum by adopting the diet and
fasting produce ketones or is that
something that needs to be reversed
before they get to that point they can
yeah they might have more of a challenge
producing it Jesse but I've seen
individuals with even full-blown type 2
diabetes who've had it for years adopt
this ketogenic approach combined with
fasting and they're able to produce
ketones now in general as you lower your
blood sugar levels the more ketones
you're going to be able to produce you
might have more of a challenge getting
into therapeutic doses of of ketones
which is over like 3.0 milliters per
milles per liter but you could still
produce ketones you can still get around
0.6 0.7 over time as you become more
insulin sensitive start burning off the
excess stored sugar and stored body fat
those ketones will begin to rise so it
might take a little longer for that
person to achieve the therapeutic doses
of KET ketones but you could definitely
produce it all right so hypothetical
example somebody's type two diabetic
they start lowering the carbs they start
fasting producing ketones at least to an
extent how quickly can they begin to
reverse that and work their way back
through insulin resistance back to
metabolic Health it depends on the
person and how long they've had it and
how much metabolic damage they've done
it also depends on if they're on
medication right so it is important if
you are on meds of course work with your
doctor none of this is medical advice
because what's going to happen is as you
start to adopt a ketogenic lifestyle
maybe Implement fasting with it you're
going to get healthier you're going
lower inflammation lower insulin if and
if you're also taking metformin or blood
sugar reducing meds or insulin you could
go hypoglycemic so you want to speak
with your doctor your practitioner and
tail a deep prescribe have them
deprescribe lower the dose of your meds
as you get healthy but Jesse to answer
your question um I give you an example
Shannon uh who's in my keto Camp academy
uh within about 45 days she went from
being an insulin dependent diabetic to
no longer having to rely on her insulin
for her diabetes 45 days right pretty
fast and she had her diabetes for years
now that's not always the case for some
people it could take a few months and in
rare except cases it could take a few
years but I would say in general you
could reverse this and get down the
right path within a matter of weeks
adopting this lifestyle for somebody who
is insulin resistant right now you
mentioned the fact this can happen
almost silently in the body over a
number of years what are some of the
symptoms people can look to to see if
they are maybe in that boat and then
what are some of the silent things that
are destructing our health happening in
the background some of the signs and
symptoms of insulin resistance are the
following skin tags you know skin tags
are a problem a lot of people get them
around their eyelids their neck their
back that's usually a sign of insulin
resistance if you have a lot of skin
tags chances are you have insulin
resistance round patches around your arm
armpit area and neck is also a sign of
insulin resistance as well this is a a
sign of glycation in the body um another
sign of insulin resistance is of course
just having extra weight on your body
having more than 20 pounds of fat weight
you want to lose that be a sign of
insulin resistance feeling tired after
eating a meal is a huge red flag that
you probably have insulin resistance
your body is overproducing too much
insulin from the meal that you ate blood
sugar goes up you're overproducing too
much insulin and then the blood sugars
dropped and then now you're in a
hypoglycemic State and you feel tired
that's another sign of insulin
resistance and some of the lingering
things that will occur high blood
pressure is one of the first things I as
I mentioned as you strip nitric oxide my
migraines are a common sign of insulin
resistance and blood sugar imbalances as
well and then if that continues of
course what happens is the insulin
resistance turns into diabetes and the
thing about diabetes Jesse is that it's
pretty rare to die from diabetes doesn't
really happen it's what the diabetes are
connected to it's the degeneration of
that disease called diabetes it's the
amputation the kidney failures the uh
cancer the heart disease it's it leads
to all of that but the great thing about
diabetes it's fairly easy to reverse and
when I say diabetes I mean type two I'm
not referring to type one it's fairly
easy to reverse type two diabetes you
can do it in a matter of weeks to months
as long as you change your lifestyle
because diabetes is a lifestyle
condition that's unfortunately treated
with medication you can see there's a
huge mismatch there in order to reverse
a lifestyle condition you change your
lifestyle you implement ketosis you
implement fasting you build lean muscle
you you focus on sleep you do all the
things you need to do lower inflammation
in your body so yeah those are some of
the signs and symptoms to pay attention
to and not to mention one of the
treatment methods for type 2 diabetes is
to inject more insulin and continue this
Cascade going the wrong way might be a
temporary fix to bring the blood sugar
down but you're further causing that
destruction that's exactly right right
and they're going to the doctor and
we're not against doctors I I love
doctors they do amazing work don't get
me wrong but when we think about what
they're doing with diabetes to your
point
Jesse you give the patient insulin it
improves their blood sugar levels and
they showed that to you and it does
improve their blood sugar levels but
it's treating the symptom type two
diabetes is not a blood sugar issue it's
a cell inflammation insulin issue right
just by taking insulin you might improve
your blood sugar levels and they could
Pat themselves in the back and show that
to you on blood work but where is the
sugar going it's going in to your cells
it's going into your organs you're
forcing your kidneys uh and your body to
excrete it uh that's a problem it's not
fixing it's not getting to the cause
it's just masking the symptom well we've
talked a lot about different ways to
work our way back from that insulin
resistance type 2 diabetes we'll group
them all together for practical sake
here we know diet's a piece of this you
mentioned building muscle fasting we've
talked about what would we say in a
practical sense for that person that's
somewhere on that Continuum with those
different conditions I
mentioned and they want to take action
today and get better what would you say
practically would be the quickest best
way to get them back getting some
momentum right making a tweak a week and
just getting some momentum I'm a big
believer that you could actually make
sustainable progress by mastering a
couple of habits per week one of the
biggest things Jesse and I wrote about
this in in my new book uh metabolic
Freedom that's coming out in 2025 I
wrote about this this idea called
self-image and this chapter 10 it's all
about how your thoughts influence your
metabolism and fat loss and disease or
even health and we all have a self-image
of ourselves for example I used to be
obese Jesse for most of my life I was
physically obese mentally obese this is
back in 2007 and even though I went
through this incredible transformation
of losing 80 pounds in 9 months and
getting physically fit the self image I
had of myself was that of a of an obese
person somebody who's overweight so even
though I was physically with a me with a
physical sixpack and looking in the
mirror and looking at my six-pack abs I
still viewed myself as somebody that was
obese that was unhealthy and I had to
change my self-image of myself because
otherwise I would have found ways to go
back to that old version of myself and
for the person watching and listening
this is the same scenario for you if
your self-image is that of a person who
has diabetes who's overweight who always
going to be overweight even though you
start to make changes you're going to
find ways to course correct like an
airplane that takes off from Toronto to
Miami the there's an autopilot that the
plane will go off course the autopilot
keeps course correcting and gets them to
their destination we do the same thing
when we set goals if we want to lose
weight for example and we start to lose
the weight and our self-image is that of
a person who's overweight we lose 10
pounds 15 pounds we do keto then we find
ways to get the weight back the weight
that was lost is now found because we're
still having the self-image of somebody
who's overweight you cannot outperform
your self image so how do you change
your self image you change it by
affirmations and know for some people
I'll say that and they're like oh no way
affirmations Ben
really affirmations you tell yourself
and you affirm that you're a healthy
lean person and for me Jesse I have
these affirmation cards and they've
changed my life I I read my goal I
affirm the new version of myself and
it's one of the easiest quickest ways to
change the self-image and here's what I
would say and I give an affirmation in
the book I say I am so happy and
grateful now that I'm at my goal body
weight I'm lean I'm healthy I'm happy
right you start to affirm that you start
to make the changes and now you're not
finding ways to sabotage yourself you're
not finding ways to gain the weight back
it isn't until you change that
self-image that you're not that you're
going to be able to change your life so
CH work on the self-image number one
number two is to look at the foundations
of Health Sleep movement uh your your
thoughts these are all really important
you could do all the keto and fasting
you want but if you're getting crappy
sleep you're stressed out you're not
moving your body it's going to be really
difficult to achieve the results you
want so start to work on your sleep work
on the quality of your sleep more so
than the quantity of your sleep get
movement in if you're currently getting
3,000 steps a day good goal would be
okay starting today I'm going to get
5,000 steps per day you master that for
a few days then you go to 7,000 steps a
day and work your way up until you get
about 10,000 steps per day a lot of
benefits by walking every single day
then you work on your sleep you master
getting quality sleep then you go to the
next thing you start to lower your
carbohydrates a little bit more and
eventually get into kosa so I'm a big
fan of small little tweaks that lead to
Giant Peaks Jesse versus all these
changes all at once especially when
somebody has a self-image of somebody
that's unhealthy so it sounded like this
but I want you to confirm self-image
should be the priority before these
other steps because you just shared a
lot there and for somebody that's in
that category that I mentioned type 2
diabetic or just extra weight and
Insulin
resistant likely all are a lot of this
will be really new to
them so how do we prioritize everything
you just shared there in a way that they
don't get overwhelmed your environment
will determine your self-image right so
your environment is very important and I
and I've seen and I've heard just in
conversation people identifying with
their condition they're identifying as a
type two diabetic as somebody who's
obese in in sort of a proud way meaning
they're talking with other speaking with
other diabetics and kind comparing what
medications they're on right there's
kind of a something proud about about
that that I hear from these
conversations so when you identify with
that and you're surrounded by other
people that are kind of supporting that
it's going to be really difficult to
change your habits change your behavior
because here's how it works your
environment determines the thoughts that
you think with which is the self-images
in that the thoughts that you think and
your self image and your belief system
determine the actions you take or don't
take then it determines the results you
get and ultimately your destiny so it
starts with the environment you want to
start to listen to more podcasts like
Jesse's Ultimate Health podcast you want
to surround yourself with people who are
on board with you making these changes
you want to have doc your doctor needs
to be supportive too your environment is
the first step because that will
determine the self-image the thoughts
the actions and essentially results in
your destiny it's very difficult I get
it you know you have people in your life
who you love you spend time with and
they like this version of you and when
you change you become a threat to people
in your life who don't change it's the
old crabs in a bucket story where you
could put 20 crabs in a bucket without a
lid leave all 20 crabs in that bucket
come back in the morning and all 20
crabs are still there and you're
wondering why are they not escaping well
a few of them tried to escape but when
the other crabs saw them escaping they
would bring them back down into the
bucket right we have people in our life
in our lives that are crabs in the
bucket we need to identify them we need
to change that surround oursel with
people that are going to support you and
that could just be podcasting books you
know the more you could inundate your
mind and create what Bob Proctor used to
call Brain tattoos of like good
information the more conviction you'll
have and then when people make comments
saying oh keto that's dangerous you're
going to have a heart attack or oh my
gosh you're eating all that saturated
fat it'll just come off of you like a
water off of a duck because you have
conviction you've been studying you know
what's the truth so Jesse environment is
the first most important thing and then
focusing on those foundations tweaking
that self-image and kind of going from
there one of the challenges of the
modern world is that the environment by
default is against us in so many ways
you mentioned books and podcasts whether
it be certain wasted time shows on
Netflix the
news the fact that most of us are
metabolically unhealthy I think the
number now you mentioned it before over
90% And there's just so many things in
the environment that work against us so
to create that environment takes effort
in all these different areas so it's it
doesn't come easy doesn't mean it's not
worth it and that's not where we need to
start cuz I agree with you but
unfortunately in today's modern world
none of it comes by default it's true
it's designed that way I remember a old
quote by Neville Goddard he said we are
only limited by weakness of attention
and Poverty of imagination and our
environment determines both weakness of
attention and Poverty of imagination and
and when I lecture on stage Jesse I
usually share a story about my mom and I
wrote about this in my book uh today's
actually my mom's birthday it's funny
that I bring this up and this story
every Thursday I have dinner with my mom
me and my fiance go to my mom's house we
have dinner with her she makes this
amazing dinner I I love spending time
with my mom but there's a problem at
right next to the dining room table is
the living room and the television is on
and my mom watches a lot of Television
she watches the Hallmark Channel most of
the time and we're eating dinner the
television is on and then you have the
TV commercials and we're just
inundated by big Pharma big food big
Pharma big food on those TV commercial
so much so that I was just like Blown
Away by the extraordinary amount of
commercials coming from Big Pharma that
I did my own little research and I
discovered that 75% of all of the TV
commercials in the United States are
funded by big Pharma 75% and out of the
195 countries in the world only two
countries allow big Pharma to Market
directly to the consumer via TV
commercials and that is the United
States
in New Zealand and the remaining
commercials are mostly big food fast
food commercials all of this goes into
our conscious mind subconscious mind
influences our decisions but if we're
aware it makes it a a lot easier Michael
Beck with said Consciousness is being
aware that you're aware so I'm aware
that this is happening on TV and I
protect my conscious and subconscious
mind now when I'm at my mom's I uh the
TV's on nothing I can do about that she
wants to have the TV on but when I'm at
home I control that environment but once
you become more aware about what's
happening out there you could protect
that conscious and subconscious mind but
to your point it's very challenging it's
very difficult but just being aware of
what's happening and making small little
changes gets you in the right direction
Jesse so you mentioned what a typical
week would look like for you diet wise
and how you have the one day on Sunday
where you allow in more carbs
intentionally you mentioned having some
eggs and cheese before our call here
let's Zoom in on a typical day what
you're eating and when you're eating so
when you're breaking your fast yeah so
in the morning about an hour and a half
after I wake up I have my coffee I've
been adding in collagen protein powder
to my coffee which technically breaks
the fast but my goal right now I'm on a
strength training program my goal is to
get enough protein throughout the day
and by having the two scoops of collagen
which is about 30 grams of protein in my
coffee helps me get to my goal so I'll
have that around 8:30 9:00 a.m.
typically wait about an hour and a half
two hours after I wake up to have it and
then I'm in a semi fasted state where I
don't eat anything uh until usually
around 12:30 noon I'll work out in
between that in in a semi fasted state
with the exception of the protein
collagen protein then I'll have my lunch
around 12:30 or noon either eggs and
like goat cheese or a ribeye steak or
some organic chicken wings with some
like hot sauce sometimes I'll have that
and then I'll fast until uh dinner time
so I usually have about two meals per
day I'll have dinner around 5:00 p.m.
usually steak usually meat I'm I love
red meat I do really well with red meat
uh and it's usually fattier cuts of meat
like ribey or picana which is a a cut of
red meat so that's typically what I have
and I usually eat two meals within about
a five hour eating window and then I'm
giving myself at least three to five
hours of fasting before bed which is
actually really important to do you
don't want to eat too close to bed
you're wearing your blue light block
glasses right now so let's talk about
specifically having that period of time
without food how that fits in and then
other things you're doing to enhance
your sleep yeah one of the worst things
one of the worst behaviors that we have
that will lead to weight gain and also
inflammation is eating right before bed
many reasons why uh number one when you
eat right before bed you're giving your
metabolism energy your body wants to use
that energy but if you just go lie down
and go to sleep you're going to store
that as fat it'll slow down fat loss and
arguably cause fat gain weight gain and
it could lead to acid reflux gird
digestive issues because you're
digesting food and now laying down uh
you're not vertical you're horizontal
and that's also could lead to acid
reflux and gird there's also a
relationship an inverted relationship
between melatonin and glucose and
Insulin now melatonin Jesse have you
done a deep dive on your podcast on on
melatonin by the way uh there's one
coming out soon and it's somebody who's
been on your show Dr John oh per yeah
he's the one he's the one to talk about
it right so that'll be coming out soon
yeah so yeah you learned about it
melatonin is not just a sleep agent it's
one of the most important antioxidants
and hormones we could take to buffer
stress buffer inflammation amazing for
the mitochondria just amazing for
overall health every cell within every
cell that has mitochondria so every cell
with the exception of red blood cells
use and produce melatonin it's it's one
of the most important powerful
antioxidants for the mitochondrial and
mitochondrial membrane so when you eat
food before bed even if it's healthy
food there's going to be a glucose and
Insulin Spike that supresses melatonin
there's an inverted relationship so you
don't get the benefits of melatonin it's
going to interfere with your sleep it's
going to raise your body temperature
when you eat food before bed it raises
your body temperature which is the exact
opposite of what you want before bed
because in order to get deep fat burning
restorative sleep stage four sleep your
body temperature needs to drop one to
two degrees when you eat before bed it
increases so you get less deep sleep so
you're going to wake up in the morning
feeling hungrier more groggy and
numerous studies show when you get poor
sleep the next morning you're going to
have higher levels of cortisol glucose
follows cortisol you're going to have
higher levels of The Hunger hormone gin
making you hungrier and lower levels of
the fat burning satiety hormone leptin
so when you eat you're less full and you
want to just keep eating more it's a
vicious cycle there's also another study
from the University of Chicago that
showed in healthy Men by the these
healthy men uh giving them less than
five hours of sleep each night but for
only a week they had blood sugars of
that of someone that was pre-diabetic
right because lack of sleep will lead to
a lot of issues it'll raise glucose and
insulin and raise cortisol so when you
fast before bed a rule of thumb would be
no food at least three hours before bed
you give yourself enough time to digest
the food to produce melatonin to lower
your body temperature it doesn't really
interfere with your sleep now if you
could extend that to five hours like I
do that's even better so I really
believe it's important not to eat before
bed it's not align with our circadian
rhythm and our hormones we're more
insulin resistant at night it's actually
better to have most of your calories
earlier in the day and this is actually
something would have taught differently
four years ago Jesse I was a big
advocate of skipping breakfast and
having dinner now I believe it's better
to have breakfast and lunch and if you
can skip dinner if you could just have
more of your calories earlier in the day
you're going to benefit than having it
later in the day all right let's talk
about the light piece again coming back
to your glasses what you're doing
throughout the day to enhance that part
of your routine yeah so as you can see
for those watching on YouTube uh I'm
wearing these yellow blue light blocking
glass glasses the reason I wear these
and blue light's not necessarily bad
when we get it from the sun it's
actually great great for energy
production and cortisol but the blue
light we get from these artificial
lights I have these two big lamps right
here I have these artificial lights all
across my office here that's junk light
junk light is not good for you and this
blue light that comes from artificial
light can be problematic your brain has
to filter out the junk light and I'm
around junk light pretty much all day
long I do a lot of content like you
Jesse so by wearing these blue light
blocking glasses instead of my eyes and
brain having to filter out the junk
light the glasses do a majority of it
for me and the analogy is like a like a
computer browser like Google Chrome I'm
using Google Chrome right now I
typically I don't know if you're like
this Jesse but over time on my Google
Chrome browser I end up having five tabs
20 tabs 40 tabs and I always think I'm
going to go back to these different
studies and all these tabs start popping
up and then my computer runs slower
that's kind of what's happening to your
brain and your body when you're getting
too much artificial junk light your body
and your brain is running slower because
it has to filter out that's using a lot
of bandwidth to filter out all the junk
light and if I just closed out all of my
brow my my tabs and just opened up one
browser with one tab my computer is
going to run smooth right that's the
same thing when you wear these glasses
it's like having just a couple tabs open
you're going to function much better
that's one thing you can do another
thing you can do is getting outside and
just getting Sunshine like right right
before I hopped on the interview with
you I have a basketball hoop in my
driveway and I I play basketball for
about 45 minutes this morning I got
sunshine through my eyes on my skin uh
the more sunshine you get I'm sure Dr
John spoke about this the more melatonin
you start to store throughout the day
and then at night you start to release
it which helps with sleep at night time
it's the most important time to avoid
the artificial junk light there's some
cool things you can do so at night time
my yellow glasses turn into red glasses
the red is for night time the yellow is
for daytime but on my phone if you have
an Apple phone there's a way and you
could Google this there's a way where
you could change your settings where you
you hit this three times and then it
turns it into a red light uh on your
phone so you're not getting the
artificial light from your phone you tap
it three times after there's a setting
that you can do just Google it um I also
wear the blue light block and glasses
that are red at night I'm avoiding any
kind of stimulation at night I do my
best to do that sometimes my fiance
likes to watch these shows like from
we're watching this show called from
very stimulating but it's better to
watch something watch something that's
more casual at night you don't want to
ra increase your heart rate before bed
um and you want to avoid screen time
about 30 to 60 minutes before bed if you
wake up in the middle of the night to
use the restroom don't turn on the
lights use the bathroom in the dark or
install red bulbs in the bathroom where
you could see and not um sacrifice your
sleep and increase cortisol so those are
a few things you can do so you've
emphasized the point we don't want to
eat within that period of time before
sleep you happen to post a video today
on your YouTube channel talking about
different drinks that we can have before
bed to enhance fat loss including the
banana tea so I'll have you talk about
that one banana tea that's a that's a
favorite there right and I want to give
credit to uh Dr Michael Bruce America
sleep doctor he's the one who told me
about this many many years ago banana te
is like Nature's NyQuil and it really
helps calm the body calm the nervous
system calm the Mind especially if
you're somebody who has all these racing
thoughts at night I know as an
entrepreneur you could probably relate
Jesse you like have all these ideas and
you want to just like go to work and
Implement these ideas and at night
before bed it's not the best time to
have that because it keeps you awake but
if you're worrying about things there's
something on your mind it's preventing
you from falling asleep you have this
long sleep latency where it takes you 45
minutes to fall asleep an hour or so
Banana could really help so the peel of
the banana has more of these
micronutrients pottassium and magnesium
than the banana itself so what you want
to do is grab an organic banana leave
the peel on but cut off the ends of the
banana and then cut it in half then you
put the two halves into a pot of water
two cups of water and you boil it for
about five minutes and what's going to
happen is these micronutrients that help
calm the nervous system calm the mind
they begin to seep into the water as it
boils then after five minutes you pour
the banana tea into a cup you discard
the banana or put the banana in the
freezer you're not eating the banana
this is still keto friendly by the way
it doesn't break your fast as well
you're not eating food it's not creating
a blood sugar Spike you pour just the
banana tea into to a cup and you drink
it you sip on it it has a mild banana
flavor you could add a little bit of
cinnamon if you want uh and it helps
calm the body it's like Nature's NyQuil
so I'm a big fan of banana te and the
reason I put it in that category as a
fat burning drink is because it helps
you get that deep Delta fat burning
sleep when you drink banana tea all
right Ben so you've gone over what you'd
eat in a week what you'd eat in a day
you also do these periodic experiments
with the carnivore diet you've already
mentioned your diet is basically
carnivore most days of the week but I
want to hone in on this 90day carnivore
experiment you did about a year ago you
had blood work done at the beginning in
the end so you have everything measured
which is just
fantastic let's talk about what led up
to that and then what that process was
like for you how you your body handled
it I love how well researched you are my
friend good job you're a fantastic
podcast host respect um yeah it was
about a year ago actually it was October
of
2023 and I had been doing variations of
carnivore as a reset since 2019 I'll do
30 days of carnivore 45 days never did
90 straight days and I never really did
a whole bunch of lab work to kind of see
some of the changes that would occur one
of the reasons why I wanted to do lab
work is because so many people think
that eating red meat and eating
cholesterol and saturated fat will
increase your risk of cancer and heart
disease and I know this is just one
person doing one experiment and my
experiment could be different than
somebody else doing the same experiment
but I wanted to show that I don't think
this is the case resarch does not back
this up and I'm going to prove it just
doing it on myself so I decided actually
I was going to do 30 days Jesse but I
ended up doing 90 and right before I did
the carnivore diet I did a whole bunch
of lab work I did a
$3500 panel of blood work a full lipid
panel particle sizes HDL LDL particle
sizes triglycerides I did my A1C My
fasting insulin a full thyroid panel
full hormone panel inflammatory markers
I did it all in day one I also did a
stool test on day one to look at my gut
microbiome I should back up as second
and say before this experiment I was not
doing what I'm doing now where I'm
primar primarily carnivore I was
probably doing keto 60% of the time and
having a lot of vegetables and I was not
carnivore prior to this okay so I want
to let my the audience know that's why
it's important to state that now I am
but I did the experiment so I did 90
days of carnivore and the couple of
interesting things happen let's start
with the stool test when I submitted the
stool test on day one I got the results
back about 3 weeks into my carnivore
experiment and when I read the report it
looked at my D gut diversity and we know
that the more diversity in your gut
microbiome in general the healthier you
are that's the name of the game
diversity my diversity when I tested on
day one came up came back as average it
it was okay it wasn't bad it wasn't
great it was average and the lab report
gave me some recommendations to increase
my gut diversity and on that report
Jesse had said less keto less red meat
more plants more fiber more polyphenols
essentially more of a plant-based diet
what did I do the complete opposite I
was doing carnivore and I was fullon in
carnivore already three weeks in going
for my 90 days so you would think that
by not listening to what the lab said
and doing the complete opposite and
eating no fiber no carbs no plants no
vegetables no polyphenols that when I
retested on day 90 it's going to be a
disaster well I retested on day 90 right
before I broke cornivore got the results
back and here's the interesting thing
everything in my gut microbiome improved
my diversity improved not just that
seven core bacteria showed up on my day
90 test that did not show up on day one
and five Keystone bacteria showed up on
day 90 that was not there on day one
doing the complete opposite of what most
people think you need to do to improve
gut health I didn't have any fiber Jesse
I didn't have any plants I just ate red
meat I ate poultry I had eggs I had goat
cheese all animal products for 90
straight days so that was the gut report
you want to ask a question on that
before I get to yeah let's talk about
that before we move on I think this was
the most interesting piece for me to see
this change what do you think it was
again no fiber everything that we
conventionally view about the microbiome
is being Shattered by this and in all
fairness we have to throw the fact that
diversity is good into the mix as well
because this is shattering everything
your diversity did get better and by
conventional terms that is a good thing
but what we're learning from this
experiment is
that maybe you know some of these
assumptions we have aren't even true so
this just shatters everything and makes
for an unsturdy foundation in a good way
it's time to look deeper at this stuff
absolutely yeah so the chief scientific
officer of this this company that I did
the lab test with was just surprised
because I told him what I was doing and
he's like I need to hop on a zoom call
with you to go over the results and I
did and he was just blown away he said
it changed his whole perspective on how
we view the gut microbiome and this guy
has spent 20 plus years in the space I
actually recorded that and published
that in the video for the audience to
watch uh youtube.com just type in benaza
carnival for it's the first video we'll
link it up yeah thank you Jesse and you
know I I Dr Poma who you had on your
show uh he kept asking me for months did
you get your results back do you get
your results back because he was so
interested in those gut microbiome
results and he was um in Miami we were
recording some content together he was
coming over my house and he came over
and literally five minutes before he got
here the results came in so we sat down
in my office and recorded a short video
and I asked him why he thinks my
diversity improve doing the complete
opposite and I I I agree with what his
thoughts are and here's what we think we
think the stress of removing um all
these plant toxins and fiber the stress
of being in continuous ketosis and just
eating meat it was a change to my gut
microbiome a stress that created
diversity more diversity it forced the
good bacteria to adapt and flourish and
then it created a scenario where the the
weak or or bad bacteria did not survive
it kind of starved them out right uh so
the change and the aggressive nature of
this change and the stress and this is a
positive stress We Believe created this
diversity in the gut microbiome now I
didn't stick with it so I would
hypothesize that if I did stick with
this carnivore diet strict continuous
ketosis for six months or 12 months or
two years I would hypothesize although I
don't know this to be true that I start
start to see the opposite results
because then my body starts to adapt and
I think the change is the most important
thing it's the variation this was a big
change for my gut microbiome so Jesse I
think that's what did it and have you
had the same test done since I'd be
curious a year later going back to again
you mentioned your diet now is more
carnivore but what's happened with those
different populations you've gained over
that year yeah it's a good time to
retest yeah so here's what I'll do when
I come back on your podcast I will have
those results and we could go over the
second results of that the third
actually third results of them yeah
sounds good and in theory do we think
the bacteria feeding on the animal
products or is it just a die off and
then a
regrowth of the good guys and it
expansion obviously of new species too
but this might not be an area you're
familiar with but do you know if
bacteria are feeding on animal products
as well I think they're feeding off the
but rate from being in ketosis right the
beta hydroxy butter rate great for the
gut uh I don't know if they're
necessarily feeding off like the animal
protein I'm not a gut microbiome
specialist it would be a good question
for somebody who comes on your show but
the butyrate for sure I know great for
the gut and then the fact that my
glucose levels and insulin levels were
pretty stable like I know a lot of these
bad bacteria feed off of high levels of
sugar of course candida feeds off off of
high level levels of sugar and I was
starving off a lot of these bad bacteria
so I think the butyrate played a big
role there and the fact that my sugars
were so optimal that these bad bacteria
didn't have a chance to flourish all
right let's get into some detail of what
each day looked like was there coffee
involved I know you're a coffee drinker
you've mentioned that electrolytes salt
other supplements I had coffee so I did
do it with coffee I didn't want to give
up the coffee Jesse I did give it up for
2 weeks throughout the entire experiment
but outside of that I had coffee um
definitely kept my electrolytes and salt
up because that's important as you do
ketosis or carnivore what happens is you
lower insulin and your kidneys kind of
go through this gesis process where it
sheds a lot of excess water weight along
with electrolytes so you can get into an
electrolyte deficiency so I was really
intentional with having high quality
electrolyte supplements or putting like
sea salt in my coffee is another thing
you can do as well uh I did a lot of
fasting naturally as I ate more meat I
was just not hungry and actually was
having a hard time getting enough
protein because I was just so full and
satiated a lot of days I was doing not a
lot of days but a few days I was doing
one meal a day I was just having one big
meal uh just because I was so full and
satiated when you eat a lot of protein
and fat you just feel so so full and
satiated now I I didn't want to do that
I was just naturally so full um I ate a
lot of red meat that was like the main
thing ground beef um ribe eyes New York
strips with sea salt I didn't add any
other seasonings I didn't do any
carbohydrates I didn't do any honey I
didn't do any fruit it was strict
carnivore for 90 days and there was it
was a challenge Jesse because it
happened I I did it throughout the
holidays it was during Thanksgiving it
was during Christmas and going back to
that conversation earlier about the
environment like my family members did
not like the fact that I was doing this
my mom did not understand it they were
making comments but I have strong
conviction and I knew I was doing this
experiment I wanted to make it accurate
but um yeah in terms of supplements what
else did I had I had collagen
I had um magnesium melatonin the same
old usual stuff but nothing that
contained any plants or vegetables in it
well let's go deeper into the specifics
of the diet because there's carnivore
and then there's a whole bunch of
different subcategories under that the
top being just having beef and salt and
you do talk about this in the video but
get into specifics of what your diet was
like and did it change at all over the
90 days yeah there are about four or
five different layers or levels to
carnivore like you mentioned the the
level one which is the most beneficial
and the most extreme level is what you
said the the red meat and the salt
that's it beef and salt beef beef Tallow
and salt that's more reserved for people
that have autoimmune conditions severe
autoimmune conditions it's really
restrictive but really powerful level
two a little bit more flexibility where
you have beef salt and beef Tallow but
then all animal products including
poultry bison lamb like you open it up
to all animal products and and even
Seafood level three is everything I
mentioned plus eggs and dairy now
personally I prefer sheep and goat dairy
than Cow Dairy so I did more of a level
three where I had all animal products
eggs seafood and sheep and goat da I did
that for the majority of my 90 days then
there's a level four carnivore which is
the most flexible one where you have
everything I mentioned plus avocados
mushrooms like Dr Paul saladino does
fruit he's animal-based that's more
flexible that's more for somebody who
doesn't have autoimmune has a healthy
metabolism and you kind of just want to
be animal- based in that variation so
for me I did more of a level three where
I had all different animal products
Seafood eggs sheep and goat dairy uh
there were some days where it was level
one where it was just beef and salt but
for the most part it was more of a level
three all animal prod prods and would
you say your diet day in day out now
after the experiment is that more of a
level four more of a level three Monday
through Saturday is more of a level
three yeah I'm doing Seafood Dairy eggs
so more of a level three and are you a
stickler for Quality organic grass-fed
grass finished how do you look at that
and incorporate those into your diet I
yeah I prefer to get grass-fed grass
finished organic I I want to support
that type of farming first and foremost
and it's just healthier for you now when
when I go to restaurants can't always
find that the safest bed at a restaurant
by the way this is a good tip for your
audience is lamb because lamb is always
grass-fed so even if it's if you can't
if you're at a restaurant and there's a
steak and a lamb shank or lamb chops
always go with the lamb the worst option
at a restaurant if it's not organic is
chicken and pork that those are the
dirtiest animals out there high omega-6
content high levels of linolic acid
which is the vegetable oil we spoke
about earlier that's the worst option if
you cannot find organic so if nothing's
organic the best option is lamb because
that's always grass-fed but yeah to
answer a question when I order my Foods
my Meats uh it's grass-fed grass finish
but when I go to restaurants I'll just
get a piece of steak even if it's not
grass-fed grass finished or organic
right and to further elaborate on what
you mentioned there that's the way I
understand it as well where roomin in
animals you're better off with those if
you're going conventional and then the
Omega 6 is Skyrocket and things like
pork and chicken when they're
conventional so just highlighting that
that's exactly right so if you're going
to go conventional avoid chicken and
pork stick with lamb as your best option
second best option is cows beef all
right let's come back to your experiment
here we went over the microbiome piece
things improved in that realm let's move
into other things body fat percentage
HRV other things you tested yeah so I
had the aura ring on the whole time and
I looked at my sleep scores my heart
rate variability then I also tested my
body fat with an inbody um Electro
impedance scale not the most accurate
but it gave me some data my my body I've
dropped 6% body fat like a meaning a
total of six% body fat reduction during
the 90 days and I didn't even realize
that I needed to lose those 6% body fat
but my body did it um so I got really
lean my abs got more defined I forget
the amount of weight I lost um 16 pounds
oh there you go Jesse there you go I
lost 16 pounds in the 90 days as well so
6% body fat 16 pounds thank you Jesse my
heart rate variability improved um
dramatically and that's a really
important marker it's one of my favorite
markers to track is heart rate
variability essentially heart rate
variability is giving you an idea of how
healthy your nervous system is we know
that we have two branches to the nervous
then we have the sympathetic branch
fight flight cortisol really important
in short spurts then we have the
parasympathetic Branch rest digest
detoxification
elimination with a low heart rate
variability it's showing that you are
parasympathetically suppressed and
sympathetic dominant meaning you're too
stressed out so in general you want to
increase you want to raise your heart
rate variability by doing so you could
actually do more biohacks you could
actually do more of the stressors that
that benefit your body and a love to
talk about that a little bit later so I
looked at my heart rate variability and
it was already good and it had been
improving over the years but with
carnivore it bumped up it bumped up on
average it kept going up and you know
the Baseline was pretty good and it kept
going back up so overall my HRV improved
my deep sleep improved I got more deep
sleep each night I got more REM sleep
which is more for uh rapid eye movement
sleep more for memory uh processing
short-term memory to long-term memory I
was waking up less times throughout the
night I I have um sleep apnea from
eating a poor diet my whole life my
teeth got crowded I had a narrow mouth
last four years I've been wearing an
expander my face looks completely
different the teeth are getting straight
but I still have mild sleep apnea so I
look at that aura ring and it shows you
that white little bar when you wake up
and that that happens throughout the
night and less of that was happening
with carnivore and I'm determined to
completely reverse my sleep apnea as I
fix my dental stuff so my sleep improved
woke up l times throughout the night
overall Jesse I just had amazing energy
levels of course I was in ketosis and I
think a lot of people don't understand
that carnivore is keto okay because
you're in ketosis when you do carnivore
keto is a metabolic process so people
think I don't like keto anymore I like
carnivore well you're in ketosis when
you're doing carnivore I have news for
people who say that um so I felt good my
brain function was great I was playing
basketball I was working out I was
strength training I was recovering well
man I just felt overall great with
carnivore my body responds really well
to carnivore a previous guest of the
show barart K mentioned that to get out
of ketosis on a carnivore diet you'd
want to have a big bullus of
food at one time and that would trigger
leaving ketosis which he looked at as
being a good thing how do you look at
that or do you feel that's true yeah
that can happen Bart is correct right so
he's referring to gluconeogenesis I I
imagine uh I don't know if you mentioned
this but he's probably referring to
gluconeogenesis from the extra protein
is is that correct do you remember that
to be honest it's been a bit I didn't
know if it
was I don't know I yeah I'd have to go
back and look yeah I doubt it was the
caloric Surplus because even if you
increase your fat like even in a caloric
Surplus that won't bump you out of
ketosis and then you're not doing it
with carb so the only thing is the
protein and when you eat a lot of yeah
when you eat a lot of protein all at
once some of that protein is converted
into glucose gluconeogenesis and it
could bump you out of ketosis and I
don't think that's a bad thing to his
point I agree now four or five years ago
Jesse when I used to teach keto one of
the things I used to teach is to eat
moderate to low protein because I was
worried that this gluconeogenesis could
kick you out of ketosis and at this time
I didn't want that to happen for people
I wanted them to stay in ketosis but I
discovered through testing a lot of
people and also my own research and
testing on myself that it's really
difficult to do that um out of for
example if you had 100 grams of protein
in one meal which I could easily do
about 60 grams 60% of those grams will
be converted into sugar via
gluconeogenesis so you would think yeah
that's enough to bump you out of ketosis
60 grams of carbs or sugar however if
you're already going into that meal in a
ketogenic state or a fasted State your
glycogen stores are very low depleted
which is your sugar reserves and your
muscle and liver cells so the excess
glucose just replenishes the glycogen
stores doesn't necessarily raise your
blood sugar levels enough to bump
ketones down so you can do that Bart is
correct if you have enough protein all
at once to create the gluconeogenesis
but it's really difficult to do you know
Jesse two weeks ago I was in Tampa for
Dr poma's conference he had a conference
where they live streamed it from a
studio in um Tampa
and I drove up because I was speaking
there and I was having dinner with Pampa
and his son Simon and we got into this
debate about protein like his his son
Simon just likes to get under people's
skin in a fun way and he was just making
fun of me because at the steakhouse I
had a piece of a 22 ounce Ribeye and
then one of our friends Andre didn't
finish her steak so I had half of her
steak and he was like oh my gosh you're
having that much protein gluconeogenesis
is bad for your kidneys and they were
like having fun about it right and paa
was joining in on this and we've got
into this debate about protein Pro he
was saying protein can Simon was saying
protein can make you fat protein can
cause a blood sugar Spike but we came to
the conclusion that it's really
difficult to overeat protein it's so
filling and satiating that it's hard to
do that Jesse even a 100 grams is hard
to do for most people so yeah can you
bump yourself out of ketosis on
Carnivore by eating enough protein you
can but it's not as common as you think
all right let's come back to HR V you
got into what that is but what about on
a day you wake up you look at your aura
ring on your phone your results you see
that it's
low what would you do to take care of
yourself or to put yourself in a better
position throughout the day yeah I love
that you asked this
question it it all boils down to um
hormesis right and I think a lot of
people in our
space have heard the word
hormesis but they don't really
understand stand it right every biohack
that we do is a stress it's it's a
positive stress when your body adapts to
you get stronger that is staying in this
hermetic zone for example red light
therapy sauna cold plunge fasting
ketosis carnivore exercise pemf mats
these are all stressors to your body are
they bad no if you do too much and don't
adapt then it becomes bad you drop out
of this hormetic curve so hormesis
essentially means a stress that you
apply you adapt to the stress and you
get stronger going back to HRV heart
rate variability lets you understand if
you're adapting to the stressor so if I
woke up this morning and my HRV was
below Baseline then today would be a day
where I do not apply too many stressors
it might be a day where I don't do much
fasting I do more feasting I don't do my
fasted workout or if I do I I take kind
of take it easy it's a day where I take
the foot off the pedal just a little bit
if I see my HRV at Baseline or above I'm
going to push myself this is a good day
to do my cold punch to do my infrared
sauna so I did my infrared sauna today I
did my fasted workout today I got the
sunshine today because it was a good HRV
day for me so it's a good gauge the
higher HRV the more fasting you can do
the more of these biohacks you can do
the lower your HRV you have no business
doing all these biohacks I mean you ask
the average person who teaches people
how to cold plunge and they're all over
the place a beginner goes to a cold
plunge coach and asks them it's my first
time how long should I go oh three
minutes wrong answer all right that is
too much of a stress for that beginner
to do they might need to do two seconds
or 10 seconds adapt to the stress and
kind of go from there so hormesis is the
name of the game you want to stay in
this hormetic Zone when you stay in the
zone that's where you thrive uh and I I
could unpack that more if you want but
yeah that's how I view my HRV Jesse all
right so you mentioned it from taking
your foot off the gas if you notice it's
low things you'll do when you have a
higher HRV to get the hormetic benefit
but on a day that it's low other than
taking your foot off the gas are there
things you can do that day like having
an Epsom salt bath taking time to
meditate things you'll do to give
yourself extra self-care for lack of a
better word to bring that back up yes
absolutely great great question yes
oxytocin anything you can do to raise
the hormone the love hormone oxytocin
will help you get that HRV back up
oxytocin is has an inverted relationship
to the stress hormone
cortisol so all those things you
mentioned Jesse elicit an oxytocin
response an Epsom salt bath a meditation
um a favorite hobby that you enjoy doing
whether that's like coloring or a game
that you play with a partner petting
your dog you get an oxytocin release
walking out in nature you get an
oxytocin release the best way to get an
oxytocin release and raise your heart
rate variability and lower inflammation
and extend your lifespan is to take
vitamin G because when you take vitamin
G you get all those benefits in a matter
of seconds uh vitamin G has been studied
and Dr Joe despenza has studied vitamin
G he's taken people through vitamin G
workshops where they would take take
vitamin G twice a day for four or five
days he would measure their cortisol
levels he would measure their immune
system via the IGA uh measurement which
is protective for the immune system and
he saw after taking vitamin G for just a
few days cortisol levels dropped their
immune system built up in just a matter
of days he also have has seen 1,200
chemical processes take place
instantaneously in the brain in the body
when you take vitamin G oxytocin Gaba
dopamine and serotonin and all these
Feelgood chemicals and hormones studies
show those who take vitamin G live
longer than those who don't take vitamin
G vitamin G lowers blood pressure lowers
blood sugar level so I know your
audience is thinking man I'm going to go
to the show notes and look for this
vitamin G coupon code where can I get it
well vitamin G is the practice of
gratitude you could see it on my shirt
we talked about it before we hit record
it is the feeling of gratitude and all
those studies were on gratitude it's not
woo woo this is scientifically proven
when you practice gratitude it's the
quickest way to raise oxytocin in your
body to raise heart rate variability to
put your body in a parasympathetic state
but I would caution that vitamin G
gratitude is not an intellectual
practice it is an emotional practice
it's not about a checklist of I'm
grateful for this I'm grateful for this
no it is the feeling of gratitude so
instead of writing down 10 things you're
grateful for I would prefer if you chose
one or two things or two people that
you're grateful for and spend a whole
minute on why you're grateful for that
person so Jesse Yeah oxytocin is what
you want to do on those days where your
HRV is low before we leave this piece
because you are an expert in do Focus L
on this you know giving your T-shirt
there and I just know this a big thing
for you I want to make sure practically
we can really translate this for people
and you got into it a bit there with
don't just write it down but feel it
but get into more of what you mean by
that and how often you'll do that
throughout the
day yeah more specific so people can
really leave this having this as a tool
on their tool belt love it in the book
metabolic freedom I have a vitamin G
dosage and I'm going to give that to
your audience right now your audience
gets the first sneak peek on that
vitamin G dos dosage the best way to get
the vitamin G nice it's a three minute
routine you do it in the morning once a
day that's it and the reason you do it
in the morning is because that's when
your subconscious mind is most
impressionable most influential and the
subconscious mind runs the show we spoke
about it a little bit earlier so by
doing it in the morning you're going to
get the most results do it before you
look at your phone before you start your
day and what you want to do in this
three minutes you want to spend one
minute on a relationship a memory a
moment a thing you're grateful for and
you want to bring as many emotions and
feelings into that relationship thing or
person for that one minute right uh and
if you have trouble doing that because
some people do Jesse I I have this
question sometimes I I have trouble
feeling the Gratitude like what can I do
imagine that person being taken away
from you imagine that situation imagine
your right arm being taken away from you
you're going to have gratitude for that
right arm right so if you could imagine
something being taken away then you have
more of appreciation for it if you
struggle with it but spend a minute on
that person then move on to the next
thing you want to find three different
things uh memories people things in your
life spend a minute on each bringing as
much emotion so three minutes that's
your vitamin G dosage you do that every
single morning and here's what's going
to happen you rewire your entire brain
there's a part of your brain called the
reticular activating system it's the
size of your pinky right here in your
brain stem this is what God put in your
brain as a selective seeking mechanism
to filter out all of the stimulation
that we get there are millions of things
that the brain needs to filter out every
day if we didn't have a mechanism in
place like the RAS to filter out
everything the brain would short circuit
we would not be able to focus and stay
alert and stay alive during the years
where we had to find our pre our
predator or run away from our predator
or find our prey so this R is trained
we've we've trained this this software
system in the brain to see what we've
taught it to see I'll give you an
example I'm in the process of buying a
new car and it's an Audi it's a uh let's
just say it's a red Audi although it's
not but red is a good example and I've
been on
autotrader.com going to dealerships I've
been putting a lot of energy and
bandwidth and Research into a red Audi
for a few weeks now and I haven't bought
it yet but I've been putting a lot of
energy into this so now I've noticed
Jesse when I'm driving around the
streets of Miami there are these red
Audi popping up all over the place I'm
at a stop sign and the car driving
across from me is a red Audi I'm on the
highway and the car right next to me is
a red Audi and I'm thinking man I never
noticed these red Audi before but now
they're everywhere why is that well
because I've train my Ras to now see it
all right how does that work with
gratitude the more we appreciate things
the more it appreciates universal law
what you feed energy to expands so the
more you have gratitude for something
the more gratitude you're given the
opposite is true when you're not
grateful when you're resentful when
you're angry you've trained your RS to
see all these problems and all you get
are these problems all you get are these
situations that make you angry and when
you switch over to getting that vitamin
G every single morning now all of a
sudden all the problems you had are now
opportunities all the obstacles are now
opportunities all the stressing are now
blessings and you retrained that R to
see the Gratitude in everything and
there's always something to be grateful
for this doesn't happen overnight but I
promise you as you get your vitamin G
every morning week after week month
after month you're going to be a a
grateful person you're going to be
talking about vitamin G to your friends
you're going to be sharing it with them
it'll change your life you know I was
walking my dog the other day and I
thought man gratitude is strength
training for the soul it's the quickest
way to strengthen the soul strengthen
the heart and I believe it's the peace
for a lot of people looking to get
healthy I love that thank you for
sharing yeah thanks for asking early in
the conversation we talked about
affirmations and I wanted to come back
to that and I think this is a good piece
in the conversation to bring it back in
in a practical
sense how does somebody do that time a
day what exactly does that look like and
for you does that fit
in alongside the Gratitude piece is this
something you do around the same time or
how just basically how do you fit this
into your day yeah I mean you can for me
the affirmation thing I I keep um it's
an affirmation card and you could
actually just get a simple index card
and write down and I like writing it
down on the present tense I'm so happy
and grateful now that and write down
your goal um one of the things I wrote
In the book is I'm so happy and grateful
now that I have achieved my goal weight
uh the perfect health I seek is now
seeking me that's the affirmation I gave
in the book so you would write that down
or whatever affirmation you want and you
would keep it with you in your pocket
and you would just pull it out and read
it throughout the day read it as many
times as possible the more
focus and
feelings and intention you put into
reading it the faster it's going to
manifest for you so the the affirmation
you would have on a card and just read
that as often as possible when you go to
the bathroom pull it out read it I just
keep it with me it just changes your
brain the Gratitude piece you simply
need to do it in the morning when you
wake up 3 minutes 1 minute each
gratitude moment now the more you do of
it the better right that that's always a
good thing but you could tie in the
affirmation part right after the
Gratitude as well if you want but with
the affirmation I like having that with
me throughout the day keep it in your
pocket and every time you just pull it
out of your pocket you read it put it
back every time you feel it in your
pocket you read it and the more you do
that the more Focus you put on that the
more you take this idea this desire this
want of what you want to achieve because
wants and desires are in the conscious
mind your expectations your self-images
in the subconscious mind soon as you
take that want and desire from the
subconscious excuse me from the
conscious mind to the subconscious mind
through affirmations it manifests for
you you don't sabotage yourself you find
ways to make it happen you you crush
your goals and you could do you could do
this not just for health you could do it
for everything in your life these
affirmations I have on here for myself
are not health related personally
they're actually business related goals
and I got to tell you man it's been
crazy I've been doing this this for
years and every single time the goal is
achieved and these are goals that are
just crazy goals but I've I've done the
work and I really believe in this Jesse
so the affirmation card carry it with
you the Gratitude do it every morning
can you give us an example of one you
had in the past that you achieved yeah
so you know for example you could relate
like the YouTube the um uh the silver
plaque right like that was a goal I had
right I'm so happy and grateful now that
I have over 100,000 subscribers on my
keto Camp uh YouTube channel like when I
wrote that man I had just started my
YouTube channel like it was just so far
out there right now uh I don't know if
you saw my phone earlier when I shared
the little screenshot like I have the
this is photoshopped I have the gold
YouTube plaque and and it says
congratulations for keto Camp 1 million
subscribers like this hasn't happened
yet right this is a Photoshop photo but
I keep it in front of me and I have that
as my goal C right and that's going to
be the next thing I achieve so I'm
telling you it works really well when
you do it consistently I did see that
earlier and I thought that might be what
was so very cool yeah so how many at a
time and how often are you changing them
I would start with one at a time one at
a I have two personally um but I've been
doing this for a while I would start
with one the most important thing you
know if it's health related start with
the health thing and you would change
you would put you I didn't mention this
so I'm glad you asked that question you
would put a u a date at the top of when
you want to achieve this and you're just
guessing so just put a date and be bold
on that date and if you get to that date
and you haven't achieved it which has
happened to me you just change the date
again but you have the date and you keep
reading it until you achieve the goal
and then you add a different goal and
have a different affirmation that's the
way I would do it all right I want to
come back to the experiment 90 days you
basically gave the gut microbiome a
break in a way by narrowing down your
diet diversity increased it got
healthier now that you're back on more
of a quote unquote normal diet how do
you look at the microbiome are you
including fermented foods probiotics
fiber I'm assuming not the ladder
but how do you look at the microbiome as
a whole and are you doing anything to
establish that in a healthy way you know
I'm still
not I still don't understand the
microbiome to be honest with you I just
feel like we're just such like the early
stages of really understanding it but I
like the idea of retesting like you
mentioned and seeing what's happening
now with this new change I love
fermented foods I think fermented foods
are great these Prebiotic Foods feed the
good guys big fan of it now if you have
histamine issues and you're histamine
intolerant you want to go really slow
with fermented foods like sarraut and
kimchi and kefir but I like them and I
have them from time to time I'm not
having I do have fiber when I have those
but outside of that I'm not really
having fiber with the exception of that
Flex day because I'm having fruit I'm
having carbs I'm having U my favorite
Masa corn tortilla chips which is a seed
oilfree beef Tallow uh which is fiber
and that's usually what I have on a flex
day but my idea around the gut
microbiome I still believe that
stressing it is beneficial through
dietary changes through fasting through
sauna through cold exposure I think
stressing the gut microbiome is
beneficial I've seen that to be the case
for myself I've seen that with other
people but I don't know like some people
could eat fiber and they're going to
increase their gut microbiome diversity
they're going to see improvements some
people do the complete opposite me they
improve their gut microbiome I I don't
know Jesse like where do you stand with
the gut microbiome because you've
interviewed a lot of people and to me
I'm still kind of confused about it yeah
I know I mean it's an area of interest
and I definitely talk to a lot of people
about it but I don't have it figured out
by any means me too and my perspective
on a lot of things in this realm
continues to change so yeah I'm I'm just
continuing to you know read about it and
ask my guests about it and learn but um
a lot to learn in that realm unlearn and
relearn that's the space we're in right
there exactly so for you a lot of good
things happened during the 90 days any
negatives well any negative
any negatives uh yeah I mean I guess
having Thanksgiving with your family and
friends and not being able to eat all
the amazing food was kind of a a
challenge and a negative um same thing
for Christmas dinner I had two Christmas
dinners and I had to eat only meat I
chose to only eat meat uh that was a
little challenging socially it's
challenging for sure you go to dinner
parties you get invited to things and
you're only doing carnivore it's it's uh
people don't understand it it could be
challenging socially so that is a
negative for sure but I did it and I was
committed to doing it and you could do
it too if you commit to it as well other
than that yes another thing I had
diarrhea I had diarrhea a few times and
that can happen I've seen that happen
for a lot of people actually especially
in the beginning so you might get
diarrhea the first week as your gut
microbiome is adapting adding in some ox
bile supplementation could help with
that usually I would say add in bitter
rich foods but that's not carnivore
apple cider vinegar could help with that
and I would add that to a carnivore
approach I think that's fine uh so I did
have some diarrhea some loose stools the
first couple weeks uh oh another another
negative would be um basketball in the
beginning I play every Sunday I play
basketball at the park in Miami Beach
with some friends Outdoors fasted two
hours outside it's hot in Miami first
couple of weeks doing that with
carnivore I would bunk I would hit a
wall and I would not have that burst
that I had before carnivore so that that
was kind of negative I discovered that
taking exhaustion as ketones before
basketball even during carnivore really
helped with that and then as my body
adapted to carnivore I had no issues
outside of that Jesse no the everything
else is positive and I could talk about
the labs as well if you want well one
lab I definitely want to get into is LDL
I know that
skyrocketed from hearing you talk I know
that's not a concern for you and a lot
of other people in our world but talk
about what you saw there and how you
look at that
yeah LDL was one of the markers I took I
took total LDL and I did the NMR profile
which looks at the LDL particle
sizes so most conventional doctors and
cardiologists believe that high LDL is a
contributing factor to heart disease
that that's usually the way most people
think and the first thought is like we
get a we have to lower the LDL we got to
get you in a Statin so my LDL on day one
I believe was around
250 on day one which was still pretty
high because I was still doing more of a
keto saturated fat approach so it was
still high on day 90 it went up to
350 super high oh my gosh however I did
the LDL particle sizes which is very
important to do because total LDL just
like total cholesterol is kind of
meaningless it doesn't give you enough
enough data so the particle sizes looks
at two patterns of your LDL particles
pattern a which is good large fluffy
goes right through the arteries um
supports the immune system it's been
linked to actually longevity then we
have the pattern b b as in bad which is
the small sticky particles that could
get lodged into your arterial wall
creating damage to your blood vessels
contributing to heart disease so when I
did the particle sizes on day one and on
day
90 most of my particle sizes were the
pattern a large and fluffy the majority
of them almost 90% plus which means
although I had high LDL the majority was
the good kind of LDL the small sticky
was really low and it got even lower on
day 90 of carnivore and I I interviewed
and I had Dr Philip aadia review the
results who's a a heart surgeon and he
said essentially on day one you were at
low risk of heart disease on day 90 of
carnivore your risk dropped even more of
for heart disease so man and all my infl
infl inflammatory markers improved but
yeah the LDL piece you so you show that
to any doctor they would freak out right
and we know that you didn't retake your
microbiome test since have you redone
the blood work since no I'm du for that
I'll do both actually okay I'm curious
on the LDL piece again not out of
concern but just when you introduce more
carbs likely that's going to come it
drop I think so I think so too any other
noteworthy the results that you want to
share you know one of the markers that I
tested for was was high sensitivity
C-reactive protein it's an inflammatory
marker and on the actual report it
actually shows that this test is an
assessment for a future cardiovascular
event meaning heart attack stroke heart
disease it's a really important metric
that cardio cardiologists look at to see
if you're at risk of heart
disease my C reactive protein was under
0.5 on day one
really good really optimal and on day 90
it was still under 0.5 right so just
looking at that you could kind of show a
cardiologist like I ate nothing but
saturated fat and cholesterol and it
didn't it didn't change my C reactor
protein I think it went up just a little
bit but it was still optimal on day 90
so that right there was important My
fasting insulin was 3.3 on day one 3.2
on day 90 again a really important
metric my A1C dropped the point it was
already optimal and it got even better
uh everything improved and you know I
have the full report on my YouTube
channel for anybody to go see it too
yeah and again we're going to link that
up in the show notes so the obvious
question and we've gotten a bit of a
taste for I think where you're going to
go with your answer because of your
Sunday changing your diet up thing why
not stick on this diet long term things
turned out great obviously there's a
social
aspect and then again adding on the fact
that you do believe from early in the
conversation there is a benefit to
changing things up on
Sunday did you consider just continuing
the diet long term I didn't I didn't
consider it but I did change my routine
because before that experiment I was not
doing what I'm doing now or I'm
carnivore Monday through Saturday not
carnivore Sunday it convinced me to do
that sort of variation but the reason
there's a couple reasons why I I don't
want to do it long term and I could be
wrong here but I've worked as I
mentioned with over 5,000 people taking
them through a keto process
and every single one of them that stuck
with ketosis long term we saw some
negative things happen right for men we
saw their testosterone drop for women we
saw thyroid issues and then for both we
saw weight loss stalls and even weight
rebound we saw cortisol issues we saw
adrenal issues um that's because and I
know we have mutual friends that I love
and respect kenberry and Dr Shan omara
and guys that I love and share stages
with they will disagree with what I'm
about to say but that's because ketosis
and carnivore is a stress to the body
short term great you're in that zone of
hormesis long term you fall out of that
zone I believe and then bad things start
to happen that's one reason why I don't
want to do it long term the second
reason is because I believe in metabolic
flexibility that is the ultimate goal
for me and I think for everybody I want
to teach is metabolic flexibility that
is having a metabolism that is able to
use any substrate that is available
whether it's sugar or fat glucose or
ketones to me there are two types of
metabolic inflexibility for the majority
of people that variation is only burning
sugar you're metabolically inflexible
because you're stuck burning sugar for
the people that are long-term ketosis a
long-term carnivore it's another
variation because you're stuck only
burning fat you forgot how to burn sugar
I never want to be in any of those camps
I want to be able to burn sugar when I
want enjoy myself with healthy carbs and
use it at so eat it at Social occasions
and then go right back to burning fat
and ketosis doing carnivore so for me
this is more sustainable and uh I I
prefer this approach to more of a
long-term keto or carnivore approach so
so far throughout the conversation
you've changed your mind on a few things
over over the years one being not
staying ketosis long term two being
prioritizing
protein three is now you're more of a
carnivore is diet after this experiment
we've been talking
about any other major changes since
you've come into this keto world that
you've changed your mind on yes good job
great um breakdown of what I changed my
mind on I even forgot well done uh I
would say yeah vegetables um I used to
be big on a green leafy vegetable
ketogenic approach um spinach kale
almonds oh my gosh that's a big one that
I changed my mind on almonds I am not a
fan of almonds personally and I tell all
my students to avoid almonds and that's
because of the antinutrients the
oxalates the fates the lectins four or
five years ago uh I was not aware of how
bad they are for you and I would promote
a very vegetable green leafy vegetable
um oriented ketogenic approach now uh my
focus is more on a low oxalate sort of
ketogenic approach so not necessarily
carnivore but eating more arugula
broccoli brussels sprouts versus kale
spinach and in terms of nuts and seeds I
do not recommend almonds anymore they
are loaded with antinutrients as well uh
for me Jesse I was eating so many
almonds and you know a lot of these keto
Breads and keto pizzas are loaded with
almond flour that I was getting these
these um sty in my eye oh my gosh have
you ever gotten a sty Jesse no they suck
I know of them but I've never had one
thankfully you know they're so painful
and they're ugly your eye swells up and
this kept happening to me and I kept
wondering why and it was my body's way
uh my body was trying to get rid of
these oxalates by shoving it out through
a sty and it was because of the amount
of almonds that I was eating so once I
stopped eating almonds and switched over
to more low oxalate vegetables haven't
gotten a sty a sty since so that's one
thing I changed my mind on uh not a big
fan of almonds anymore all right we
touched on biohacking before and I know
through digging into your work you're a
fan of biohacking with some of these
different substances like methylene blue
and yeah you've had Nathan Brian on your
show as well and I believe you've at
least tested out his supplements for
nitric
oxide talk about that aspect because you
have this really unique Paradigm where
you're keto almost carnivore but you're
also into the biohacking and I just
think Al together where you've evolved
to is a really interesting place so I
want to bring the biohacking piece in
talk about what you're experimenting
with these days yeah thanks Jesse it is
an interesting EV um Evolution for me
love Nathan Bryan's nitric oxide lenes I
use that cyclically um you know I do a
lot of supplements I do them I rotate
them and I go on and off of
supplements but in terms of biohacks
some of my favorite biohacks that I
personally do on a consistent basis a
red light therapy doing that every
single day I have a red light therapy
panel right here I have an infrared
sauna that I use as well um that has red
light therapy I use that most days I
have a coal Plunge in my backyard um I
use that maybe two or three times per
week it's not something I do every day
okay and I love these these supplements
that we could call biohacks I I love
methylene blue my my nails are actually
blue from taking it before the
conversation here I use Dr John's
product by the way methylene blue and I
love methylene blue because it helps my
brain function well it feeds my
mitochondria uh it's great for
inflammation so methylene blue is
something that I take often you combine
methylene blue with red light or
Sunshine like it really enhances the
effects as well I love my coffee with
caffeine I love uh different supplements
that I take like the nitric oxide I'll
take creatine big fan of creatine I'll
take seven grams of creatine per day uh
I could go through a whole list of
supplements that I take but yeah
biohacking is is important I think
biohacking is great I just think people
overdo it sometimes they don't
understand that it's a stress you want
to feel better after a biohack not worse
if you do a cold plunge and you feel
wiped out you did too much it was too
cold you should not do that again until
youve built up this hormetic ceiling and
one of the best ways to know if you're
building up your hormetic sealing is
tracking your HRV it tracks exactly the
same way the higher your HRV the more
biohacking the more fasting the lower
your HRV the less biohacking the less
fasting so I love biohacking Jesse I
think it's amazing that we earn this
space and we could get all these amazing
results in half the time uh I have all
these amazing bioh hacks and I'm blessed
and grateful for it but you got to use
them the right way talk more about the
creatine piece I think you said you're
around seven grams a day is that
primarily for the cognitive benefits the
physical I'm assuming both but what is
your main reason for taking that it's
primarily for the fitness uh benefits
that's why I started to take it because
uh I'm on a strength training program
and lifting more weights eating more
protein and I know it's great for
strength training muscle um recovery as
well and also it's just great for the
mitochondria so like you mentioned the
brain loaded with mitochondria so I like
the way I feel with with uh with
creatine I think creatine is one of
those supplements that both men and
women should take it's safe it's cheap
um there's thousands and tens of
thousands of studies on them uh women
usually take around three to five grams
of of creatine per day men 7 to 10 grams
these are just general kind of
suggestions here I'm around the seven
Gam Mark and I take it pretty
consistently I usually take it before my
workouts for before basketball is what I
do one area I want to hit on a little
bit deeper before we part ways is the
exercise physical activity piece which
we're going to spin off with the
creatine there we talked about metabolic
Health early in the conversation I want
to bring this in in that realm somebody
that wants to become more metabolically
healthy tying in the resistance training
putting on muscle with that piece
it's a really important piece Jesse um
we know that muscle mass the more muscle
mass you have the more insulin sensitive
you are and with 93% of Americans being
insulin resistant that is really
important muscle mass acts as a sponge
to absorb glucose so you don't have to
overproduce insulin to clear that
glucose the more muscle mass you have
the less likely you are to fractures a
osteopenia osteoporosis which is a big
problem as we
age muscle mass is as we know a
longevity organ and when we talk about
muscle mass and I know when I had my
CrossFit
gym the idea of muscle mass usually is
equated to like a crossfitter or a
bodybuilder but that's not what I'm
referring to here I referring to lean
muscle mass not becoming a bodybuilder
or a crossfitter and it's not that
difficult to build lean muscle mass it
does not require an hour at the gym
every single day as a matter of fact
less is actually better less is more in
this scenario you just want to be really
intentional with your workouts and
really consistent and have something
that's creating a resistance so if
you're a beginner you would just use
your body weight you would just do like
for example squats body weight squats
and if you have issues doing that you
could modify that and just sit down on a
chair and stand up that's your modified
version of a squat and kind of build
your way up you could do push-ups no
equipment required you could do altered
lunges with just your body weight you
could do planks you could do burpees you
could do Sprints then we could take it
to a next level where you add some
weight to the routine and you want to
gradually increase the weights over time
so your body does not reach a
homeostasis it has to continue to adapt
in general you know three or four times
a week 30 minutes each workout is enough
to get the job done you just want to
make sure you're getting enough sleep
and recovery on those days you're
tracking the HRV as well and as you do
that as you get enough protein take your
creatine you're going to notice amazing
benefits with your blood sugar levels
with your overall energy levels and of
course it's going to also I believe
extend your lifespan Ben I think we
should leave it here for today we'll
have you back on the show like we talked
about talking about those test results
new book which I can't wait to read in
the meantime we're going to link
everything up in the show notes your
YouTube channel your social media we
reference a couple different things
throughout the chat we're going to link
those up as well and I just want to end
with gratitude for you and coming on the
show and sharing what you shared I
really enjoyed this thank you Jesse I'm
a big fan I've been a huge fan of yours
you're a great great exceptional podcast
interviewer thank you for having me on I
have vitamin G for you as well now that
you're done you're going to want to
stick around here and catch this other
incredible episode you don't want to
miss it I'll see you over there ignored
the trials showing the lowfat diet
didn't work they ignored the trial
showing that replacing saturated fat
with unsaturated vegetable oils did not
have any effect on reducing heart
disease or cardiovascular mortality and
that's the way they AR