U this next question comes from Advate
Prasad in New York. He writes, "Today,
Bergkshire holds over $300 billion in
cash and short-term investments
representing about 27% of total assets,
a historically high figure compared to
the 13% average over the last 25 years.
This has also led Berkshire to
effectively own nearly 5% of the entire
US Treasury market. Beyond the need for
liquidity to meet insurance obligations,
is the decision to raise cash primarily
a d-risking strategy in response to high
market valuations?
Or is it also a deliberate effort to
position Birkshar's balance sheet for a
smooth smoother leadership transition,
providing Greg Ael with maximum
flexibility and a clean slate for future
capital allocation decisions? And I will
add one line from another shareholder,
Mike Conway, who asks, "Are you
encouraged you may see some fat pitches
coming your way?"
>> Yeah. Well,
I wouldn't do anything nearly so noble
as to withhold investing myself just so
that Greg could look good later on.
[Applause]
Now, if he if he gets any edge when I
leave, I'll resent it. So, the uh
now the the amount of cash we have, we
we we would spend well, we came pretty
close to spending 10 billion not that
long ago, for example, but we'd spend a
h 100red billion. I mean, and and those
decisions are not tough to make. uh when
when something is offered that is that
uh makes sense to us and that we
understand and uh offers good value and
where we don't worry about losing and
the one problem with the investment
business is that things don't come along
in an orderly fashion and they never
will. I mean, it isn't like every day.
Uh, you know, the the long-term record
is sensational, but that is not a
product. And I've been in,
let's see, I've had um 200 trading days
times
80 years. And I mean, 16,000 trading
days. It It would be nice if every day
you got four opportunities or something
like that. And you know you could and
they were expected to be equally
attractive.
You know if I if I was running a numbers
racket you know every day would have the
same expectancy of that I would keep
40% of whatever the handle was. And so
the only question would be is how much
we transacted but we're not running that
kind of a business. And so we're running
a business which is very very very
opportunistic.
And Charlie always thought I did too
many things. He thought if we did about
five things in our lifetime we we could
we could uh we'd end up doing better
than if we did 50 and and uh and that we
never concentrated enough. Uh so that
we would rather have
if we've got 335 billion now in
treasuries,
we would rather have conditions that are
developed where we would have like 50
billion or something like that. But that
that just isn't the way the business
works. And
we have made a lot of money by not
wanting to be fully invested at all
times. And uh we don't think it's
improper actually for people who are
passive investors just to make a few
simple investments and sit with their
life uh sit for their life in them. But
we made the decision to be in the
business. So uh we think we can do a
little better than that
by behaving in a very irregular manner.
But if you told me that I had to invest
uh
well our
let's say that we have a roughly 40
billion a year coming in and we start
with 335. If you told me I had to invest
50 billion every year till we got down
to 50 billion that would be the dumbest
thing in the world
to invest in that manner. things get
extraordinarily attractive
very occasionally.
The long-term trend is up. Nobody knows.
And uh I certainly don't know. Greg
doesn't know. Ajet doesn't know. Nobody
knows what the market is going to do
tomorrow, next week, next month. And
nobody knows what business is going to
do tomorrow, next week, or next month.
But they spend all their time talking
about it because it's easy to talk
about. But it it it has no value. Uh
I've never found anybody I wanted to
listen to on the subject. And uh the on
the other hand, I found that leafing
through things like that big Japanese
book that I can't read anymore. Uh
that's a treasure hunt. And every now
and then you find something and
occasionally
very occasionally but it'll happen again
that uh I don't know when
it won't it could be next week it could
be 5 years off but it won't be 50 years
off. He will have we will be bombarded
with offerings that we'll be glad we
have the cash for. And it'd be a lot
more fun if what would happen tomorrow,
but it's very unlikely to happen
tomorrow. Very, very unlikely to happen
tomorrow. But it's not unlikely to
happen in 5 years. And then it gets the
probabilities get higher as you go
along. It's kind of like death. I mean,
if you're 10 years old, the chances that
you're going to die the next day are
low. If you get to be
15 or something like that, it's almost a
cinch.
Particularly if you're a male. I mean,
all the records are held by females in
terms of age. And uh
I tried to get Charlie to have a sex
change so he could test out whether
and uh
he did pretty well for being a male.
I'll put it that way.