every year thousands of men unknowingly
live with a silent threat prostate
cancer this disease often symptomless in
its early stages can linger unnoticed
until it becomes harder to treat the
numbers are alarming one in8 men will be
diagnosed with prostate cancer during
their lifetime in 2023 alone over
288,000 new cases were expected in the
US with nearly
34,700 men losing their lives yet
there's hope when caught early prostate
cancer has a survival rate of
98% recognizing the warning signs can
make all the difference what is prostate
cancer prostate cancer is a type of
cancer that develops in the prostate
gland a small walnut-shaped organ in men
responsible for producing seminal fluid
prostate cancer can manifest in two
distinct forms in slow growing cases the
disease May remain asymptomatic for
years causing minimal disruption to a
person's life in aggressive cases it
spreads rapidly potentially impacting
other parts of the body and leading to
Serious life-threatening
complications here's what you need to
know about the subtle symptoms and why
you should act on them one frequent
urination especially at night are you
waking up multiple times to urinate
frequent urination known as nocturia
could be an early red flag the prostate
gland surrounds the urethra when
enlarged it presses on the urethra
making it harder for urine to pass this
leads to frequent and Urgent trips to
the bathroom even when your bladder
isn't full while aging or conditions
like an overactive bladder can cause
similar symptoms persistent changes
warrant medical attention two painful
ejaculation experiencing discomfort
during ejaculation might signal a
prostate issue
this pain can occur in the penis testes
lower abdomen or rectum inflammation or
changes in the prostate including cancer
can disrupt the process of seminol fluid
production leading to pain if this
symptom persists it's important to
consult a doctor three blood in urine or
Seaman seeing blood in your urine
hematuria or seen hematospermia can be
alarming in prostate cancer blood
appears due to tumor growth or vascular
damage in or near the gland other
conditions like infections or urinary
tract injuries may also cause this
regardless visible blood should never be
ignored four pain while sitting
discomfort while sitting may seem minor
but can indicate prostate problems an
enlarged prostate or tumor can create
pressure in the pelvic area causing pain
in advanced cases this pain May radiate
to the back hips or thighs persistent
discomfort should prompt a medical
checkup five pain in back hips or chest
persistent deep-seated pain in the back
hips or chest can be a sign of advanced
prostate cancer that has spread to the
bones unlike typical muscle or joint
pain this discomfort doesn't improve
with rest and may worsen over time if
you notice this seek IM immediate
medical attention six swelling in legs
or feet swelling in the lower limbs
known as edema can indicate prostate
cancer that has spread to lymph nodes
when lymphatic drainage is blocked by
cancer cells fluid builds up in the legs
and feet persistent swelling especially
when paired with other symptoms requires
urgent
evaluation seven unintentional weight
loss losing weight without trying can be
a serious warning sign cancer cells
consume a significant amount of energy
leading to a metabolic imbalance that
causes rapid weight loss unlike weight
loss from diet or exercise this type
leaves you fatigued despite eating
normally eight numbness or weakness in
limbs tingling numbness or weakness in
your arms and legs May indicate Advanced
prostate cancer compressing the spinal
cord this condition called spinal cord
compression disrupts nerves responsible
for movement and sensation left
untreated it can lead to paralysis or
loss of bladder and bowel control risk
factors for prostate cancer certain
factors increase the risk of developing
prostate cancer age risk Rises after age
50 with most cases diagnosed in men over
65 family history a father brother or
close relative with prostate or breast
cancer doubles your risk
Race African-American men are at higher
risk and more likely to develop
aggressive forms lifestyle diets high in
red meat and processed foods combined
with obesity and lack of exercise may
increase risk prevention and early
detection while you can't control age or
genetics adopting healthy habits can
reduce your risk eat a balanced diet
focus on fruits vegetables whole grains
and lean proteins include antioxidant
rich foods like tomatoes and broccoli
exercise regularly stay active to
maintain a healthy weight get screened
regular screenings like PSA tests can
detect issues early a message of Hope
prostate cancer is serious but it's not
unbeatable early detection can save
lives offering a 98% survival rate when
caught early listen to your body and act
on the warning signs share this
information with your friends and family
it could save a life stay vigilant and
proactive about your health your actions
today can make a difference tomorrow