the Muslim country that rejected radical
Islam. Uh, let's go back. I'll see what
this is. So, somebody responded, "What a
racist channel." And then the people who
ran the channel pinned the comment.
Okay. All right. Let's see this. How do
they deal with Islam? And uh, yeah, big
surprise. And also, it makes sense that
the Muslim countries, at least some of
them, are going to be able to understand
this because they deal with it more.
They know more about it. Uh I think that
a lot of a lot of people here in the
west don't want to deal with that.
Anyway, let's see what this says.
You cannot be Muslim more than me. You
will not be more Arab than I. So why is
it that I banned the Muslim Brotherhood
and you haven't
alhamdulillah
man
now in our hands. Rome will one day will
be in our hands and every house and
every tent will have a Muslim in it. Why
is it the fact that Islamic relief is
banned in UAE and is banned in Mecca?
What is allowed in and in London? So
this is a very good question. Why is it
that this extremism, religious extremism
is being allowed in these western
countries, but it's not allowed in the
countries where the religion is the
dominant the dominant force.
Yeah, there's a lot of question to be
asked.
More British citizens travel. I think
people are afraid of criticizing Islam
because they don't want to be seen as
racist. I think that it's completely
this problem is completely
self-inflicted because of uh you know
the politics of it. I think that's
really what it is
to the Islamic State to fight in its
ranks and join the British armed forces.
We are coming and we will destroy you.
The problem is not with the freedom of
speech. The problem is that there is a
evil inside your society now using that
bro. These are the guys that are from
the Middle East saying this.
No [ __ ] wonder they're not taking the
migrants.
I think this explains a lot, right?
Because a lot of people wonder like,
well, why do these other countries not
take them? Well, there you go.
policy of freedom of speech to abuse it
and to destroy your society.
My name is Stefan Thompson. I'm the
founder of Visag 24 and I'm here in the
United Arab Emirates in Abu Dhabi and
today I'm with Amjad Taha, an Emirati
geopolitical expert and a great advocate
of peace. Amjad,
thank you. Thank you for having
fantastic to fantastic to be here with
you.
Great to see you. Finally.
Finally. Amad, let's start with the
differences between Islam here in the
United Arab Emirates and the Islam that
we see on our TV screens. The Islam of
radicalism that we see everywhere.
When you say on on our TVs, uh I think I
believe the West is what you mean and on
the west what we see also we we we are
very shocked most of the time. You see
radical Islamist and brotherhood uh who
are former terrorists or terrorists
themselves but in the west they they
have been named uh as activists those
who run he's straight up calling the
activist terrorists
man
damn
okay
from from justice in their own country.
Oh, he just let he just let them know
committed a crime have been involved in
in various
acts such as rape and and and
and beheading and so on. All of those
individuals right now they live in the
west as teachers as lecturers as doctors
and um
as protesters
protesters. Yeah, true. as protesters
who protest to glorify the Muslim
Brotherhood, the armed forces at least
of the Muslim Brotherhood as we seen the
after the 7th of October by that I mean
Hamas
they glorify terrorism and all form of
terrorism
I think
and they do not respect the rules and
the regulation of the countries that
they say they they went there and they
had had a refugee status there. See,
this is what I find to be so funny about
this is that this is the same stuff that
if somebody like me said this, people
would say that it's like racist or
Islamophobic, but the people that are
actually from these Islamic countries,
that's their [ __ ] policy.
And as they get the citizenship, they
start recruiting
the citizens of the west to become a
hostages of the Islamist propaganda all
the way in the Middle East which their
parents run away from them and they went
to the west and they became a citizen.
However, this new generation of theirs,
they they start becoming the recruiters
of of those um Islamist in the Middle
East and they right now um at the stage
of making more lone wolves
and we saw that lone wolf's policy of
ISIS. A lot of those extremist
who some were European went all the way
and became members of ISIS in Iraq and
Syria. they actually were members of the
Green Lane Mosque for example or in
Birmingham in UK in small heath or in
Sheffield or
so he's basically saying that the amount
of tolerance that the western countries
show to a lot of this extremist religion
and extremist Islam is way higher than
even the Islamic countries show to it
and I think that's probably true like a
lot of extremist religion like I don't
have a problem with religion I think
religion's fine
But I think that whenever your religion
is telling you that you have to like
conquer people and kill people and do
this stuff and you're and you're
preaching that, I don't think that
that's something that is protected
speech really. Whenever you're
advocating for violence on a mass level
like that, uh this isn't something like
obviously like just because your holy
book says this doesn't just
automatically give you a free reign to
say whatever you want.
So yeah, that's why the problem that's
why the extremists leave those
countries. Yeah, exactly. That's why
they're in Europe. It's because they get
kicked out of the countries that are the
Muslim countries cuz they don't want to
[ __ ] deal with them. So yeah, it's
that simple. It's not religion anymore.
It starts becoming a cult. The UAE don't
allow any extremism. Well, do you know
why? It's because look look at like
listen to this guy talk. This guy
probably has a blood pressure of like
90.
He's never like this guy's probably
hasn't been stressed out in three years.
They they don't want to deal with this
[ __ ] [ __ ] no.
In in in Western Australia,
Canada. So they they were part of that
civilized culture and that civilization
great civilization in the west. However,
because of the scholars that Britain, U
um Canada or or Australia or any other
country ignoring ignoring or ignorance
of the fact that this scholar is
recruiting and is not speaking about
religion is actually using um the space
and the place in in the west and the
freedom of speech to make these children
or these students or these people in the
west
to become a hostage of the Islamist and
then later on to become the soldier that
kills his own neighbor.
Wow.
God damn,
bro. What the like Okay. Yeah, write
that down. Yeah, exactly. I saw a really
shocking statistic speaking about
Westerners who joined ISIS.
More British citizens
traveled to the Islamic State to fight
in its ranks than joined the British
armed forces.
Yeah.
What the [ __ ] is going on?
Oh my god.
Numbers are huge. We're speaking about
more than 7,000 I think um some of the
western who at least hold European not
even surprising.
Why do you think Islamism is finding
such fertile soil
because it can't be criticized
Europe
two things well various things to be
honest not the two things but the first
thing is the fact that there is a they
they abuse the freedom of speech. So
what they do, they use the freedom of
speech to justify
anti-semitism for example and they turn
the anti-semitism to become an opinion
rather than a crime.
Sure.
So that space of freedom
but the fact that Europeans or the west
need to understand
this Islamist right now they know the
error they know this problem that you're
having. Yes. It's not the problem is not
with the freedom of speech. The problem
is that there is a evil inside your
society now is becoming member of your
society using that policy of freedom of
speech to abuse it and to destroy your
society to destroy your universities. at
one point universities such as Harvard
University, Oxford University and those
prestigious university people in the
what I was saying about people co-opting
your values just for completely self-
serving means and they don't actually
care about them.
It it's so obvious this shit's
happening.
It's so [ __ ] obvious and the west
they want to become a member of or they
want to study or teach there. Right now
when I remember Harvard University I
remember protest
where Jewish student get persecuted.
Nope.
Be swore at be insulted.
It's a place as I as much as I see from
the images recently for uh for riots
for people uh insulting each other for
Yeah. I mean these universities are are
becoming PvP servers. They are like you
look at some of the people that are
talking and acting this way. They're
just insane. And I think that that them
not clamping down on it just makes it
worse. And I think that this is one
thing that I mean I don't I wouldn't
want to live under Sharia law. I
wouldn't want to live under the UAE's
laws. But there are a lot of things that
other cultures do and like aspects of
their behavior that I think is more
effective than what we do. And I think
that they see this stuff a lot more for
what it is. and they don't allow
themselves to be emotionally manipulated
in the same way and they just
immediately take action on it and they
don't play into the game of intellectual
dishonesty that I think a lot of these
people try to create
teachers get attacked or having a
different perspective or opinion people
fighting people with masks covering
their faces with with flags of terrorist
Hamas and all this so
I still cannot not believe that Hassan
thought that that [ __ ] flag was good.
Oh my god. It just looked like a mustard
label, man.
It did. It looked like a It's a mustard
label. Like, I'm sorry. Like the Saudi
Arabian flag, for example, goes so much
harder than that.
Looked like off-brand mustard. Yeah,
it's exactly
turn the uh the the place of education
and knowledge to a war zone. When that
happens,
your civilization
is is either going down
Yeah.
or it's breaking and it's breaking under
your observation. You're allowing it to
happen. You can put rules on regulation.
Yeah.
Deport those Islamist.
Do not let them harm your children. Do
not let
them harm your your society, your
community.
Isn't it crazy that if somebody from the
west said this, people would be spamming
and calling him a racist? See, like we
really should look at guys like guys
like this can really help us, I think,
get to the next level because they hack
the logic and the value system that a
lot of these annoying, obnoxious Kairens
exist inside of. So in order to
understand the logic the a Karen logic
the entire Karen philosophy is based off
of intersectionality where the person
who is the most oppressed is the most
right and has the most permissive
behaviors. So most behaviors that are
permissible. I guess that might be a
better way to say it. So what I mean by
that is that really criticizing these
people as a westerner, as a white
person, they will not ever listen to it
and they will write it off as, oh, it's
racism. Oh, it's just like you're afraid
of another culture. But bringing on guys
like this that understand it better than
any of the Karens do because they live
it. um that actually I think that that
subverts their value system and it makes
them have to argue and look at the
substance of what's being discussed
rather than just disregard it
categorically. And I think that guys
like this can really help us.
Not let them be the people who wake up
on the 8th of October, for example.
Mhm.
And tell you to boycott Kala, attack a
Jewish restaurant just for being a Jew.
Yeah.
And they they justify it and they allow
it. Don't be. This is your country. This
is your civilization.
Yeah. I I I think that this is a pretty
big distinction that he's making is that
I I feel like it's very easy to
criticize Israel and I think it it's
easy in a way that like socially it's
easy and also because you know there are
things that Israel does that I find
problematic um you know like involvement
US politics the way they've treated
gazins etc right but there's a very big
difference and I don't know if you guys
have noticed this as well but I've been
seeing a lot of people that have
basically gone the extra mile and
they've created did a like a a like a a
collective guilt for all Jewish people
because of Israel's actions. And I think
this has become very common and I think
this is really the third time this has
happened in a lot of our lifetimes.
Right? The first time that it happened
was with um 9/11 and all Arabs and
Middle Eastern people had a collective
guilt assigned to them because of 9/11.
And then in a much lesser extent, but
still observable, it was happened with
all Asians and primarily Chinese people
with collective guilt being assigned to
them for COVID. And I'm sure that maybe
Germans had this happen after World War
II, but now we're seeing it again now
where Jews are being assigned a
collective guilt because of the actions
of Israel. And I think that all three of
these instances are fundamentally
dehumanizing. you're taking the actions
of a group of people that oftentimes
these people aren't even a part of or
associated with and then uh you know
blaming them for those actions then
treating them as if this person supports
that. That's the true racism. It is. And
so I I I'm glad that people are
acknowledging this. Russians during Cold
War. Yeah, I'm sure that's what's
happening.
You you pointed out deportations
which I obviously couldn't agree more
with. Yeah.
However, one of the structural problems
that we have in Europe
is you're run by a bunch of emotional
Karens that care more about optics and
feelings than facts and logic. That's
the big problem. That is the fundamental
problem. Get rid of that problem. Every
other problem goes away. Keep that
problem. Every other problem gets worse.
Western Europe.
That's it.
It's identity. data that I've seen
points to the fact that
absolutely is
second and third generation migrants are
much more likely to be radicals than
first generation migrants which means
that if we're talking about France many
of the migrants are obviously from the
Mcgreb region
Algeria Morocco
I think that serves that goes to serve
as evidence of the fact that the
integration and cultural integration
isn't
Because why is it that these kids and
these grandkids of these people who have
fled these countries turn into the same
oppressors that their parents and their
grandparents were running away from? I
think the reason why is that they go to
these foreign countries. They're
isolated. They're not integrated and
assimilated into the society and into
the culture. And as a result of that,
they over time become more radicalized
and find any degree of, you know,
solidarity with a religion or anything
like that as comforting. And they're
looking for a place to go. They're
looking for somebody that accepts them.
And unfortunately, maybe ISIS or one of
these terrorist organizations accepts
them in a way that they haven't felt
like from their own country. They refuse
to integrate. This goes both ways. I
understand that, but like whenever
you're talking about second and third
generations, these people were born in a
way integrated and I I I know it's not
the same, but it's similar. My point is
that they're going to school and I don't
think that they're being integrated into
the culture in a way that's effective.
It's very clearly and obviously not
effective. That's why it's happening.
Same thing h yeah I think like basically
so the same thing happens with every
basically every race and every group of
people has a problematic group of them
that is primarily consistent of young
men that are disaffected by society. It
doesn't matter whether it's gangs,
whether it's the KKK, whether it's some
like weird white supremacist
organization, whether it's uh you know
like a a radical Islamic organization,
it's really all the same.
And so incels Yeah, exactly. Incelss are
a good example of this, too. It It's all
coming these are all branches from the
same tree. Antifa. Yeah, that's another
one. Because and again this is primarily
because of young men that aren't able to
find a place in society. And I think
that the reason why it's happening a lot
in Europe is because they're not
properly integrated and assimilated into
the culture.
In the UK many come from Pakistan,
Somalia,
which which in my opinion is
irresponsible migration. It's
irresponsible immigration and it causes
more harm than good.
and third generation is more likely to
be radicalized and they are already
citizens.
Now, how do you deal with a radicalized
second or third generation migrant?
That's a great question.
That you cannot deport because he is a
citizen of your country.
You put him in jail.
Yeah. With those you change the the the
rules and the regulation when it comes
to radicalization.
Just change the rules.
Yeah. Duh. For example, one one great
example of this is the fact that
why did they become radical?
I I I would say there's many many many
many reasons.
One of which is they do have their own
uh they they start separating themselves
from the rest of the country and the
rest of the
How about that
community one two they start having
those
by the way it's this is obvious you
don't need to be a genius to see this
it's it's obvious Yes,
schools what we call the jihadist school
of Saturday, Sunday so on weekend.
Now why did the government allow those
scholars to be the scholars of those
mosques? If the scholar does not support
coexistence, peace, prosperity and
tolerance, he should not be that teacher
of that new generation because what that
student goes or that person when he
attends the mosque is going there for
the knowledge for spirituality and so
on. Now when you have the scholar
himself is the evil.
Mhm.
The result of that is the conduct of
evil which the individual himself will
carry and do. The change for that is the
educational system. So there is there
need to be first look into those mosque
look into the societies um bring them
more to close to each other that they
need to have a lot of activities
together and so on. And also why is it
the fact that um a person that lives in
Dubai, a Muslim person from the same
background of the person that lives in
France or in in UK,
third, fourth generation here, they're
still open mind. They're still Muslim.
They're still conservative. Yet they're
not radical. They're not supporters or
glorifiers of terrorists. But a person
who is a Muslim,
it's so easy, isn't it? It's really not
that hard.
leaving all the way in France or Britain
is more radicalized and is more um there
is more likely that he's going to become
a member of the ISIS or a Muslim
Brotherhood terrorist organization is
the fact that the west up to this point
the media is justifying
uh the existence of for example Islamic
relief as a charity organization in UK
or in the west why it's not a charity
organization it's it's a it's a
foundation or organization that steals
the money from the west the pockets of
the people who are willing to help. Yet
he takes that money and he he gives it
to organizations terrorist organization
in the Middle East.
He just says it
under the name of a school and
hospitals. Those schools are run by
actual Islamist terrorist who fund and
support Iban Hamas.
You you
cannot be Muslim more than me. You will
not be more Arab than I. So why is it
that I banned the Muslim Brotherhood and
you haven't?
Why is it the fact that Islamic relief
is banned in UAE and is banned in Mecca?
What is allowed in in in Perry and and
in London? So it's Yeah, there's a lot
of question to be asked.
Yeah, I I think there's there's many
many more questions that we will
we will explore in a follow-up to this.
This has been a very good warm-up
session. Thank you for an upcoming
series of videos with Amraad. Amadra,
thank you so much.
Absolutely unfathomably. I could not
even imagine that it would be this
[ __ ] based. This is such a great
[ __ ] video. Let me link it to you
guys. And there's also a follow-up video
that I want to show you guys. We've seen
this video before. Yeah. Uh Vicerad,
they run a Twitter account that's pretty
popular that I follow as well, and I
think they're great. Ahad W. Yeah. And I
think that we really need to go and
elevate guys like this because I think
that's the only way that you can hack
into the logic system that the people
that are running running cover for
terrorism can't fight back against by
just saying it's racist or something
like that. It's because these people are
part of that same group. And that's
really the again you have to use their
their their strategies against them,
right? And so look, listen to this. Uh
uh let me see if I can find Yeah, this
is it.
[Music]
Let me say this in English.
I'm going to find the one where it's not
the the music.
This was in 2016. Yeah. There will come
a day that we will see far more radical
extremist and terrorists coming out of
Europe because of lack of
decision making
trying to be politically correct
or assuming that they know the Middle
East and they know Islam and they know
the others far better than we do. And
I'm I'm sorry, but that's pure
ignorance,
man.
How is it that they have figured this
[ __ ] out? And actually, it's obvious how
they've figured it out. It's because
they've lived it. It's their lives. They
know the Quran better than we do because
they've read it. They've grown up
reading it. So, they know what these
problems are. They know who these guys
are. They know the Islamic really. They
they know who's getting what and
everything. Exactly. And so yeah, their
neighbors. Exactly. Yeah. It's their
history, of course, man. And uh I I this
is crazy for me to see that so many of
these guys can figure this [ __ ] out, but
for some reason uh we're not able to
here in the West. It's insane. They
played these games before. Yeah,
exactly. Like Yeah, they have. It's all
more serious than people think. It's a
religion based on principles of cults.
Well, what I'm saying is that like there
are ways obviously that these guys have
to reduce the negative effects of that.
And I think that being able to
acknowledge that is really important.
And if you're not able to do that,
you're going to be having a lot of
trouble.