Mauna are back with a new jpx Iron Range
so what are the different models and
what are the differences and which one
should you be putting in play let's go
find out so there are three models in
this year's jpx range the hot metal the
hot metal pro and the hot metal HL now
Mauna are aiming to cover three
different Target markets here and
there's kind of a clear consumer or type
of golfer that will fit into each
different design now the hot metal is
kind of the main model in this range and
that's designed to be the one that's the
most forgiving and also gives you the
most distance I guess it's like the best
blend of performance in the set then we
move to the pro and that's designed to
deliver that package but in like a
smaller Sleek more compact look but
maybe someone who just prefers a smaller
Club maybe a slightly lower handicap
golfer lastly we've got the HL and I
think this is really interesting because
this is designed to deliver more Spin
and more height which isn't something we
see that often in an iron option so if
you're someone who hits it low struggles
to get the ball to stop on the green
this could be an option which would be
really great for you to try so let's go
hit the all and see if those three
things are true if we see the
differences in the range and how these
get on while you're here I would really
appreciate if you could hit that
subscribe button over 75% of people who
watch this channel aren't actually
subscribed and it makes a huge
difference in terms of what content we
can create and what opportunities we
have and what videos we can bring to you
so if you could hit that subscribe
button while you're there you might as
well hit that like button too and drop
us a comment what's been your favorite
equipment that we tested recently or is
there something else you'd like to see
on the channel right back to the video
so I'm going to hit all three models
through the bag we've got split sets I'm
going to hit 9 75 starting with n to W
myself up what I like this year about
the new additions is they've added this
like different color curing in so on the
back of each Club it's kind of clearer
which model is which we've got the pro
here down in the black then we've got
the hot metal in the white and the hir
Chell in the blue so you can kind of
more easily pick out which is which
which I think is really good but then
overall like the design language is very
similar so you don't feel like you're
getting a different Club let's start
with the pro cuz that's definitely my
favorite in terms of profile so these
models are all multimaterial
construction for the first time so it's
going to be interesting to see how that
affects things like spin I would expect
it to kind of increase launch but maybe
spin bring spin down a little
bit I think what's surprising is how
soft mauno managed to make these feel I
know obviously that's what they're known
for but these are a lot bigger there's a
lot more Tech in there tungsten weight
and Etc you kind of expect them to feel
a lot different and I'm not saying they
feel as soft as a mauno blade but they
do feel really nice which I think it's a
big plus for some of those like kind of
bigger irons in the back that stopped
super quick on the green literally one
hop and stop which is always nice to see
so that's carried
139.6474 so I still think that's pretty
high for for a multimaterial
construction then it was paired with a
land angle of 40.8 I might have expected
that to be a bit higher but actually it
stopped just as quick as I needed to on
the green so seems to be working so
far so again pretty similar in terms of
carry 137.5 yards the height was up at
81 ft which I think is pretty good for 9
iron and there actually the land angle
got steeper so 45Â° pairing that with
6254 is that's going to be really good
in terms of stopping power so I like
that good distance a little bit of a
game for me soft feel off the face and
it's stopping really quickly let's see
how that compared to some of the other
models okay hot metal I don't think this
is too drastically different in terms of
sizing probably Heel To Toe it's a
little bit longer Top Line doesn't look
too much different and actually there
doesn't look to be loads difference in
terms of offset which is probably
definitely a preference for me I don't
need any help getting the ball to go
left
can really hold that L hit that to like
two foot does that make it the winner gu
so the data here is looking pretty
similar
137.5 yards in terms of carry 75 ft in
terms of height it has actually spun up
more
7,192 on that and a land angle of 42.2
so not massively different from the
other one N I think you would see the
smallest Gap in the allall I generally
think I start to see more changes from
like 7 eight and up and that's kind of
what you want cuz you don't really need
need to short irly be boosting load's
distance
out those both have gone D straight
though so that was slightly shorter
134.5 yards still really high spin
6,864 height Hadad lower 69 which was
again bringing that land angle down to
40.8 but all in all pretty consistent
I'm not sure I can pull a difference out
between the two irons so far let's go
hit the h l it'll be really interesting
to see if this flies higher and what
happens with the spin here given this
one's designed to kind of go the highest
and spin the most for people who need
like more launch and stopping power now
I suspect because I have enough launch
generally I might hit these a little bit
shorter if they suddenly launch really
high they must be weaker lofted to go
higher these definitely do look a tad
bigger and like the front is more Square
than the others definitely more offset
[Music]
too I call that Tad skin and it's still
got good height carry down a tad
125.4 spin 7930 which is really good for
this kind of build the highest we've had
so far height 72 wasn't necessar my best
strike land angle 43.7 so you can see
there's a little increase in the land
angle there and the spin it's definitely
going to help people who hit it low and
find it really hard to stop the ball on
the
green that one definitely flew higher
but I can kind of see on the green
they're not quite carrying as far so
that was 129. eight so a little bit
longer but still not up in the 130s like
I saw the other clubs 74 ft in terms of
high again over 7,000 Spin and 43.1 land
angle so I can definitely see a little
bit there it's kind of helping you in
terms of launch land angle and spin
which I think is going to be really key
for the kind of player that wants this
club let's go hit some longer irons see
if the differences get a bit bigger
there right we're up to 7 IR now it's
going to be interesting to see the
changes here cuz in across all these
sets from 79 to 4 they have extra
tungsten weight in here in the T now in
theory that should help in terms of
forgiveness we're getting more weight on
the preter also think it could help in
terms of distance and launch again
starting with the hot metal pro I do
like how they've kind of made these a
much more compact size I would say the
top Line's probably a little thicker
than I'd usually use but I think because
the size and the shaping is more compact
you feel like you don't mind the Top
Line being a bit
thicker okay so that's carried 162 yards
which again is probably like seven yards
longer than what I would expect out of
my own Iron generally I'm looking for
like 155 out of my 79 with my current
set the Height's up at 70 so I'm pleased
with that it stayed pretty consistent
from what I saw with the nine I like to
kind of see the height stay the same
through the bag lined angle 37.6 I did
hit that little low um and spin
4,743 that was
better dead at it okay so that one
definitely flew higher that I got up at
89 ft which is definitely more I'd like
to see it I'm trying to kind of get near
to 90 with all my clubs at the moment I
am just hitting a bit low in terms of my
swing technique currently so this is
definitely helping me out there 165.1
spins so that's like a good club longer
that's like my normal 6 I 4,578 of spin
pair with 45.2 land angle that's going
to give me really good stopping power
and I could see that on the green cuz it
stopped really quickly let's swap into
the hot metal and see the differences
now what's definitely going to be a
factor here in terms of the data is
every Club has a different shaft in it
and they've obviously sent that stock
because each club would have a different
shaft you're not going to give someone
who wants a high lofted die in the same
shaft as you would in the kind of pro
but terms of testing and showing
different models it's not necessarily
the best so in the hot metal here I've
got KBS T light and R then in the Pro
that I was just hitting I've got a
dynamic gold 105 stiff and then in the
high lofted I've got a dynamic gold 95
rig so we do need to bear that in mind
in terms of some of the comparison
numbers I think probably we're not going
to see as biger difference as we would
if I kind of put my stock shaft in like
every option that Pro went pretty far
I'm not going don't really feel like I'm
going to see a club go further than that
I do sometimes find if I prefer kind of
the look and it's smaller and compact I
do swing it a bit quicker and then hit
it further even though technically maybe
I should hit one of the other clubs
further and that's why you should get
fit and try all the
models that definitely didn't fly quite
as far
158.1mm of carry so a little bit longer
than my current one but not loads
4,121 spin so a tad down on what we saw
with the pro that's kind of what I would
expect in terms of the difference in
Tech 78 FTS are still pretty decent and
42.3 land angle so still all very
controllable
numbers now these still feel solid but
I'll say they feel a little bit firmer
than the pros it's definitely kind of a
tad noticeable difference in terms of
that sound and feel that one was the
best strike it got up to 164.245
4,615 height 76 and land angle 41 I feel
like they're all performing quite well
the pro is definitely the standout so
far but there doesn't seem to be a huge
difference yet we can definitely see
quite a nural difference in offset at
this point it feels like this hit chel
option has just a lot more of that top
planine Nur will be thicker as
well so you what that felt the easiest
to strike though at this point it's gone
very high yeah that carried up at 85 Fe
which is back with like some of the
highest shots I've hit possibly not gone
quite as far
158.523
with a land angle of 45.4 so what's
definitely clear here and I think the
biggest difference across these is that
the HR flies higher and Spins more and
has a really good consistent land angle
which is definitely I think what people
need out of this club it's probably the
this is probably the model that needed
the biggest variance in terms of those
factors
tell you what if you struggle to hit it
these are definitely the best option
because they feel so much easier to hit
than the others so I was a tad lower 75
high but still got to 162.5 yards in
terms of carry 4,650 in terms of Spin
and the land angle is still up at nearly
42 so feels like this one is definitely
going to be the one that gives people
the most help okay we're on the 15th at
scar craft now par three 170 Ys but
straight up the hill so that's where I
need a little bit of help from these
five irons generally my five IR like 173
174 carry so going to need a little bit
of a boost I think to get all the way
back up that hill now these are designed
this year with 30% thinner faces than
we've seen from previous hot metal
ranges so hopefully that's going to get
me this little boost we've also got
multi face thickness so the faces are
not consistently the same thickness
they're different all over the face and
that's to boost ball speed in areas
where maybe the T or the heel if you
don't quite strike out the middle now my
one like little niggle at this point is
I feel like I can see the back of the
club head outside the top line and
that's just my one one thing I just I
don't it love visually when it gets to
longer
clubs that was so good that was such a
solid ball flight and it's like easily
got there and just checked up so that's
carried 180.7 yards the spin was 3,161 I
think people may think that's too low
for a five iron but you there's quite a
lot of tech in this head and it's still
gone up to 72 ft in terms of height and
come down with 37.2 land angle so it is
going to stop quick enough and we've
seen that there it did stop dead that is
slightly uphill so that probably help a
bit I loved that ball flat though that
felt so easy to hit it was very powerful
I think you just want that little bit of
consistency like that on your five iron
don't you like if I hit my five iron
like that every time I'll be so so
happy okay didn't strike that quite as
good but it still got up to
7 height 65 definitely saw that in the
strike and land angle
35.6 but generally FR flying a five IR
178 yards I'll be fairly happy with that
okay next up hot metal based on just the
tech I would may be expecting this to go
a bit further but we haven't necess seen
that so
far you know it's a pretty similar ball
fly but it doesn't feel like it came out
quite as far I think it's pitched just
short of the others yes that was
[Music]
interestingly M spin
5,165 which is a lot with this kind of
bigger five iron 73 in terms of height
and 40.3 land angle I mean these are all
very very playable numbers I just think
for a club head this size I would want
more distance out of it to justify using
the bigger build having said that I know
I'm just a bit weird and visuals play a
massive part to me so it might be that
someone else gets loads more distance
out of it you can get this because
sometimes people see a club that looks
different and they kind of present it
differently so maybe like I'm adding a
bit of Loft compared to what I do with
another club my attack is not quite as
steep so I'm not getting like the
maximal distance
out that was a bit longer 178.6 yard
spin dropped a tad it was a little
pulley
4,141 land angle still 38.5 and the
height was still 71 so let's see what
the difference is when we now move to
the high launch model okay this is
definitely a big Club head can see a
lot of like the back badge and then the
top line and there's a lot of
offset this could be
interesting it went so high so easily
though I mean it's just made the front
and the green so it's definitely shorter
than the others but it was also
definitely easier to hit high so that
was up at 80 ft which is definitely
higher than what I've seen with the
other five Ires carry
172.5 spin up at 4 ,600 still really
good spin numbers for the size of the
head like I'm really impressed with that
I'm not entirely sure how they've done
that because usually as the club head
gets bigger the spin just goes through
the floor land angle 42.3 so once again
a really steep land angle on the green
so I think really if you're someone
who's looking for something that you
want to stop quicker you want to be able
to get control these are really going to
work
well okay didn't strike that quiet as
well so the height came down 5T 75 ft
still managed
172.16.0.0 but I think for that to only
be 39 on like a not very good strike is
pretty good all in all like this iron is
probably the one I've been most
impressed with in terms of kind of doing
what it says on the tin it definitely
adds a lot of spin which is really
interesting I think Muno have done a
great job there and it adds a lot of
height and stopping power so if that's
something are looking for and that's
something I see all the time from Club
golfers you know they can get the ball
of the green but it's not stopping and
it's running through the back these are
really going to help especially when it
gets firmer in summer after that I would
say I really love the hot metal PE I
really like the performance there I
basically gained a club through the bag
in terms of distance and that was pretty
consistent throughout the bag I like the
smaller shaping of that I like the style
and I like the fact that they're a bit
bigger but they still feel like a pro
style club like the fact they give me a
little bit of help those five Ires I hit
here were like money and they would
really help me in terms of consistency
out of the golf bag in kind of those
long clubs I mean I do feel like I could
probably get him a full set of then
realistically maybe I wouldn't because
I'm a bit picky when it comes to like
wedge 98 ion I perhaps would like
something with a smaller so but actually
I could play them through the set and
they performed really well I think I
would have to test the hot mail again in
kind of a different shaft because it
performed pretty similar to the probe I
think some of that comes down to set up
overall M have done a great job with
this range again they're giving you that
extra distance forgiveness and height
and spin in some cases but still kind of
delivering on that kind of Mauna
trademark of feel let me know what you
thought and if there's any that you're
going to be trying now