if you have a constantly irritated or
painful SI joint and you can't seem to
find a long-term fix this video is for
you typically when I see issues or pain
at the SI joint there's a common theme I
see with how it presents and there's
certain positions of the joint I can't
access and I'm going to show you how to
get that and also decompress it at the
same time now the SI joint does indeed
move the degree of which is Up For
Debate but I do want to let you know
that I'm going to be exaggerating how
much movement does occur at this SI
joint because I need you to visually
understand what I'm talking about if I
did the amount it actually moves you're
not really going to be able to see it so
just know that this is exaggerated
typically when I see issues at the SI
joint it's stuck in a position where
it's kind of like this now when this
happens we call this external rotation
of the pelvis so it kind of opens up
like a flower if you want to look at it
that way these bones rotate away and and
this bone the sacrum bone right here
tips back now what that entails usually
is a lot of tightness of muscles on the
back side around this area muscles that
help create this opening like this are
on the back side of the pelvis so
typically what that means is the SI
joint can't access the opposite of that
which is this position this is a
position of compression this is a
position of what we would call internal
rotation and this is getting the sacrum
bone right here to move forward and
these bones to rotate back and also in
like this this internally rotated
position is the Clos packed position of
your pelvis and SI joint this is a
position of stability and this is a
position that a lot of people with SI
joint issues can't get into effectively
so exercises we're going to focus on
help open up the bottom side of the
pelvis and again rotate these bones in
so we're going to be doing some things
that help drive this internal rotation
at the pelvis and also the sacrum bone
moving forward which should be
accompanied by these bones rotating
relatively in this first thing is going
to be just a nice passive decompression
activity and then we're going to start
layering things on it now what we need
is a towel or a couple of hand towels
rolled up like this I'm going to fold it
over once just like that and the amount
that you need need will vary depending
on how much you can tolerate how much
pressure into your hip but about that is
what I'm going for you could start more
narrow than this again it's up to you
find whatever is comfortable but you're
going to be on your side and you want to
have a 90° Bend at both your knees and
your hips now your painful SI joint
should be the one that's facing the
ground you want to take this towel roll
and you want to put it at the very top
of your hip you know that bone on the
side of your hip right here you want to
lay down on top of that where the towel
is pressing into it it's important to
understand why we're in this position
and what this is accomplishing because
we have our hips bent like this at 90°
and we're laying on that very Apex of
that pelvis bone right here do you see
what that's doing to the pelvis as I put
pressure into that towel like that that
is pushing from the side this bone in so
what that's doing is that's creating
that internal rotation that's opening up
the back side of the pelvis like this
and decompressing that space and now
that you have that pressure of that bone
going into the towel right there your
head's nice and relaxed and you have
this thing in between your knees all you
really need to do is just sit here and
just breathe exhale through your
mouth fully pause and then inhale
through your
nose okay now this is the key that can
get that bone to rotate in even a little
bit more the exhale will engage your
side ABS at the end of it if you exhale
for long enough usually about 5 to 10
Soft seconds and then you pause holding
on to that side AB tension and then you
inhale through your nose you're going to
feel your rib cage open up from front to
back especially in the back that's going
to be great for further decompressing
your low back and also the joint itself
so it looks like this exhale softly with
an open mouth
side ABS
pause soft inhale through the nose it
should be a silent inhale through the
nose for about 3 to 5 seconds and again
maintain a little bit of that side AB
compression now if you have a partner or
a friend or anyone you can use to just
give you a quick hand this can give you
even more benefits and open up that
space so we can just be in the same
exact position but Aldo here can press
on the very top of that other pelvis
bone right here right in this exact area
and you can just apply straight vertical
pressure to that bone and then I'm just
going to do my job sit here and breathe
exactly as I was before and you can
adjust the amount of pressure obviously
it should never ever be painful but it
should feel like he's giving you a
decent bit of pressure this is now going
to help open up the SI joint on both
sides more so on the downside because
even more force is going down into that
towel now if you're ready to add
something to this after you do this for
a while and you feel comfortable you can
take that foam roller in between the
knees and now you can only move through
your knee keeping your feet stacked
together roll that top knee just a tiny
bit further forward when you exhale and
then as you inhale roll it back very
slow and I'll show you from a different
angle but you got to make sure this top
knee gets slightly behind the bottom
knee but when you exhale just one inch
per second try to get that top knee
ahead of the bottom knee it should be
super chill you should not feel your low
back moving much at all it'll be just a
tiny bit but this is a very subtle
movement and it should feel like you're
not doing much at all but this is
further opening up the backs side of
your pelvis if being up in this much hip
Bend is uncomfortable for you you feel
something weird in your hips feel free
to go just a little bit lower like this
and do the same exact thing that can
also be a way to go here just stay going
slow nothing else changes and feel free
to play around with other variables too
mess around with how thick or narrow
this towel roll is or how much pillow
support you need but I would recommend
doing this for about 10 breaths at a
time if you're just going to sit here
and breathe but if you're going to add
in the roll then you can do again exhale
out inhale back and do that about 8 to
10 times if this video is helpful to you
and you're seeing some relief from these
exercises check out my beginner body
restoration program it's designed for
anyone to be able to do and it requires
minimal time per day with easy exercises
that help address common issues like
this at the SI joint and low back so if
you want to learn more check it out down
below in the description okay for this
one we're going to need to find a bench
and lay on the floor support your head
with a pillow if you want and you're
going to have a 90° Bend of both your
knees and also at your hips and this is
imperative because this 9090 position is
going to help us open up the back side
inside of our pelvis more you also need
a ball or something compressable you
could take another pillow fold it in
half but what I got right here is a
little bit of a deflated ball and I'm
going to put this deep within my groin
basically as far down as it can go while
I can still keep my knees in line with
my toes now make sure your toes are
straight ahead not out straight up and
just your heels or lower Shin or on that
bench or whatever you're using a chair
can also be good you don't want to be
here so right here is where we're going
to go and all we're going to do is drag
down a little bit trying to drag our
heels into the bench slightly lifting
our knees towards the ceiling but the
key is our low back needs to stay 100%
flat on the ground if we see any flaring
of the rib cage that's no good if we see
too much hips coming off the ground
that's no good it needs to be just a
very very minor tailbone lift and the
hamstrings on both sides should engage
back of the thighs now we're going to
squeeze the ball just maybe a four three
out of 10 to start and we're going to
feel a little bit of inner thigh
engagement make sure your neck is
relaxed make sure your low back is
relaxed and then just do that same
breathing you did on the other exercise
exhale through the
mouth find your side ABS at the end of
that exhale and then hold on to those
side ABS as you gently and silently
inhale through your
nose if you do that well you're going to
feel your chest your low back your upper
back expand standand with that breath do
that for about 5 to eight breaths
maintaining the hamstrings on that
slight tailbone lift and that very
slight ball squeeze also some people
benefit from just not lifting their hips
off of the ground just drag down a
little bit to feel some hamstrings
tailbone low back still flat but then
add a little bit of that squeeze finally
some people benefit from a little bit
more of a squeeze rarely this is the
case but you can work up to even maybe a
6 seven out of 10 never more than that
but again when you do that you should
feel just your your thighs no outside
hips should be working here if you're
feeling something on the front outside
that's no good you're squeezing too hard
I'd recommend you do these exercises
twice once in the morning once at night
per day and for the amount of breath
cycles that I talk about in the tutorial
themselves now if you want to learn more
and you want other exercises that can
help check out that beginner body
restoration program it's linked Down
Below in the description
[Music]
he