what if I told you there were only five
exercises you needed to do for the rest
of your life there's a high chance that
if you do these you'll be looking and
feeling a lot younger first up we have
the plank if you've never done this
exercise before you're going to want to
start flanking strengthens your abs
shoulders back glutes and most
importantly your core it's super simple
to do and I love it because there's a
bunch of different variations of it the
ability to stand upright bend over and
lift safely depends on core strength if
you don't have a stable core then you
can't really do much of anything
efficiently so how can you perform the
plank to strengthen your core let me
show you start by lying on the floor
with your face down support your body
with your wrists and elbows right under
your shoulders keep your body straight
from your head to your heels as you lift
it off the ground engage your core
imagine pulling your belly button
towards your spine remember not to let
your shoulders your hips sag during this
pose for as long as you can start by
aiming for like 20 to 30 seconds and
then slowly increase the time now the
first few times are going to be a little
tough but you'll quickly gain strength
from it and it'll become easier here are
some different variations you can do
depending on if the traditional plank is
too easy or too hard for you the first
one is the knee plank which is great for
beginners keep your knees on the ground
while maintaining a straight line from
your head head to your knees the second
one is the side plank you can do a side
plank by lying on your side
straightening your legs and stacking
your feet keep your elbows straight
under your shoulder and PR yourself up
on your forearm then lift your hips off
the ground so that your head and feet
are in a straight line this one is a
great way to work on your obliques and
make them stronger so they can turn
better the last exercise we'll be going
over is by far the most important and is
also the most overlooked but but more on
that coming up moving on to our number
two we have the RDL so balance is
something we lose quickly as we age but
it's also something that's simple to get
better at the single leg RDL Works your
hamstrings hips and lower back while
making you stronger more flexible and
more balanced it's an all-in-one
exercise for your lower body that I feel
should be in everyone's workout so how
can you do it correctly let me walk you
through through it step by step keep
your back straight and your feet hip
width apart move your weight to one foot
and keep your knee slightly bent on the
other foot now drop your body forward
and straighten the other leg as you
hinge at the hip as you bring your hands
to the ground keep your back straight
and your core tight return slowly to the
standing position and do it again now at
first just use your own body weight as
you begin to feel more comfortable you
can add dumbbells for some added
resistance now at number three we have a
classic exercise that you definitely
have seen before but I am positive
you've been doing it wrong your whole
life I'm going to show you the correct
way so that you can maximize its
Effectiveness and prevent injuries
push-ups work your chest shoulders
triceps and core all at the same time
making them one of the best exercises
for building upper body strength but
push-ups aren't just for building muscle
they also help you build the strength
needed for like everyday tasks and can
improve your posture to make sure you're
not one of the many doing push-ups
incorrectly let me show you the proper
form start off by doing a high Plank
with your hands a little wider than
shoulder width apart slowly lower your
torso by bending at the elbows
maintaining a 45° angle make sure you
don't let your elbows flare out because
it can be terrible for your shoulders
and less effective stop just before your
chest hits the ground and then push your
yourself back up to where you started
keep your body straight from your head
to your feet during the entire movement
be sure not to let your hips drop your
increased core strength from doing the
first exercise will help you out here if
you want to get the most out of the
exercise I highly suggest doing it
slowly and controlled also I put
together a simple workout plan that you
can follow 3 days a week and I'm going
to go over that at the end of the video
but if you're looking to mix things up
there are several variations of the
push-up that you can try beginners can
easily do incline push-ups you just put
your hands on a raised surface like a
venture a table to make the move easier
if you want to Target the width of your
chest more go for wider stance push-ups
by placing your hands further apart from
one another to work on your lower chest
and your triceps do diamond push-ups by
bringing your hands together under your
chest to make a diamond shape I already
did the entire video on push-up
variations so if you want to check that
one out I'll link it in the description
of this video now you're definitely
going to want to see this next exercise
because I'm almost certain that you've
never heard of it before this unique
exercise is called the Horse stance so
even though it looks simple this is an
exercise that can drastically improve
your entire body by doing it every
morning the muscles it engages the most
are your legs glutes and core which
makes it a secret gem for building lower
body strength and stability are you
starting to notice a common trend of
these exercises the reason you're going
to feel and look much younger is because
these exercises make you stronger and
more stable to do the horse stance keep
your feet wider than your shoulder and
your toes pointed slightly outward now
start to squat down until your knees
reach a 90° angle as you do this
remember to keep your core tight and
your back straight once you're in that
position hold it for 30 to 60 seconds
you can hold a small weight at chest
level for an extra challenge as you get
better it's like I said it looks easy
but once you start doing it you're going
have the unique benefits to this
exercise is that it helps with
concentration and focus once you're in
this position you'll quickly start to
notice how much concentration it takes
the horse stance also transfers over to
a lot of other exercises I do in my
workouts all right now let's get into
that exercise I mentioned earlier that's
going to be one of the most
transformative for you the kettle Bell
swing is one of the best exercises you
can do for strength and cardio all in
one it works your glutes your hamstrings
core heck even your shoulders while
getting your heart rate up fast so if
you want to burn calories in a short
amount of time then this is one of the
exercises that you're looking for the
movement is simple but powerful it's all
about hinging at your hips and using
explosive energy to swing the kettle
bell a lot of people do this wrong so
you're going to want to follow closely
start by placing your feet shoulder
width apart and using both hands to hold
the kettle bell securely the kettle bell
should swing back between your legs as
you hinge at your hips and then let the
momentum of the hip Drive Elevate the
kettle bell to chest height as you
prepare for the next repetition allow
the kettle bell to swing back down
naturally while keeping control here
it's important to use your hips rather
than your arms as the movements motor to
ensure that the exercise stays safe and
efficient it may feel a little weird at
first but I promise as you continue to
practice the motion it will become more
natural kettle bell swings have many
advantages outside of the gym they
increase hip strength and Mobility which
are necessary for running jumping and
well simply getting out of a chair fast
you will feel stronger faster and more
capable in all that you do if you start
doing these consistently all right now
let's get into that workout routine that
I hinted at earlier if you have a clear
plan of action you're more likely to do
it and it will feel easier so you can do
this workout routine 3 days a week oh
and make sure to have a rest day between
workouts start off with the horse stance
three sets of 30 to 60 seconds then do
single leg rdls three sets of 8 to 10
reps per leg then move into kettle bell
swings three sets of 12 to 15 reps go to
push-ups for three sets of 10 to 15 reps
and finish off with plank three sets of
30 to 60 seconds if you thought that
this video was helpful be sure to share
it with someone else you think might
like it