How is it that setup can be the
difference between me hitting a good
shot,
a shot that is left and over the top,
and a shot that is rather unsatisfying,
a whiff
or a thin or a top or a joke of a shot.
And those things can all happen in your
setup. And I don't care if you've been
playing golf for 15 years or 30 years or
you're just starting out. Most golfers
are making these crucial mistakes in
their setup right now. And it's the
reason why you struggle to hit the ball
well. It's the reason why you're coming
up short with your driver. It's the
reason why your ball is not in the
fairway. So today, I'm going to show you
some really common setup mistakes and
how to fix them so that you can strike
the ball incredibly well. These setup
mistakes are so overlooked and I find
myself fixing them in almost every
single lesson. Okay, we're going to kick
it off with one of the most important
pieces to contact power and controlling
your shot, and that is your posture.
Most golfers are going to set up like
this, and I'm correcting this in almost
every lesson. They stand up too
vertical. They push their butt out and
lock their legs in place and their lower
back. This sets you up for shorter
drives right out of the gate. And it
causes you to stop using your body. The
whole idea of locking your body, it's
restrictive. What's restrictive? Well,
it causes me to stop turning my
shoulders and swing all arms. And when I
lock my hips in place, well, you want to
look at why you're hitting over the top.
lock this lower body and swing.
My club and my hands and arms have no
choice but to swing out up and across
the ball.
So, you have to get away from the old
habit of locking up your body. Instead,
to strike the ball super crispy,
we need to turn our body in a
relationship to the ground. And no
matter who you watch, anybody who's good
at ball striking knows this fact that
when we turn our body in relationship
with the ground, we create power in the
golf swing on this tilted angle.
If we don't have a relationship with the
ball, we're going to miss the ball
entirely, like you're a baseball player,
you're going to top it. You're going to
hit it thin. Keeping this relationship
is essential to striking it on the
center.
So, we set this relationship first by
pushing our butt out a little bit and
moving the belt buckle down toward the
ball. So, the belt buckle down towards
the ground. This one's often missed.
Unlock the knees gently. And you're
going to find that there's no stress in
the body with this one. We're not going
for restriction. We're going for
allowing the body. Now, bend forward
from your spine
and unlock those knees a little bit
more. So the knees are over the toes.
Let your arms hang down. This is
natural. This is how your body wants to
work. So we're not forcing our body into
positions it doesn't belong. Don't you
want a natural swing that works with
your body? I know I do.
Pushing my butt out.
Bend forward down towards the ground
till the club hits the ground.
Unlock my knees and gently gently relax
this lower back. You might still find
you want to stick this butt out here.
Please don't because this is restricting
your turn, killing your speed, and it's
the reason why you slice. Relax.
Relax.
This arm hang is probably my favorite
piece of the setup, too, because it just
feels so natural with your body. So, now
that I'm set
with my arms hanging down naturally, I
can feel the shoulders controlling the
rest of my body.
and you don't feel like you have to
force the club on any particular path.
How many of you struggle to get your
club on the right path in the back
swing? Like you'll spend hours working
on takeaway.
You're like, I'm tired of going inside.
I'm trying to go out here. Well, when
you have the natural arm path
set here with this arm hang,
if you just swing your shoulders back,
keeping everything else intact, watch
this.
The takeaway starts back perfect every
time. A natural piece of the setup. Your
swing is built there. The takeaway is
built there. Now, keep going with this
natural arm hang.
When you get to the top, you'll find the
club's traveling up the proper path
without you having to think about
raising the club up or what's the path
or where's the club face. All of it is
maintained by getting this natural
posture
right there at setup.
And that's just one little piece of the
posture. So your spine tilted to the
ground with these hips. Everything's
working together in this beautiful
relationship with the ball. And no
matter what club it is, gap wedge
shorter down here. Relationship
maintained. If it's a driver, you'll be
out here. Same thing. Relationship
maintained.
That means a centered strike right
there. Beautiful. So I get over the
ball, my natural arm hang, my relaxed
posture,
let those arms hang, swing the
shoulders,
and just rip one.
And the amount of thinking was about
zero and a half to do that. That was
ripped. Did I say that was a seven iron?
It's an eight iron. Oo. They're going to
call the cops on me after that one. All
right. I'm going to show you a piece
that's crucial for controlling your ball
flight. And this one is overlooked about
10 times out of 10. Most of you don't
even know you're doing it. And that is
how your right arm and shoulders point
at setup. something so basic.
So, a lot of golfers wonder, "Oh, well,
I'm I've been over the top forever. I'm
flipping at impact all the time. No
matter how hard I try, I'll flip or
swing over the top."
But have you considered that your
shoulder position and your trail arm
position might be the culprit? I just
saw a student the other day who posted a
video and he said, "Tom, I've been
flipping forever." And then I'm looking
at his setup and here's what I see.
His right arm is so straight and his
shoulders are aligned left. You just
think about how this works for a second.
Straight arm, shoulders align left.
What's this mean for my swing? I'm going
to return to this position at impact.
Well,
can you see it?
It's like this windshield wiper flipper
through impact flipper the dolphin.
And don't even get me started on swing
path. We don't want to look at
steep down misery.
So, why is it that you're flipping?
Well, you're basically telling the golf
ball. Hey, golf ball. With this setup, I
want to flip.
So, there's a pull. There's a steep over
swing. And I don't think about my swing
to do that. That's just built into the
setup.
Now, you would change your entire life
if you could grasp this concept right
here. And that is get your trail arm
under more
and bend it. So, get some bend in there
and tuck it in. And with this arm under,
I'm changing from this position to here.
You'll feel the way you hit the ball
out. Powerful, crispy, not so much
steep. We've gotten rid of the steeps.
You can see the path difference. Look at
this.
Over and down and more under and out.
And I haven't changed my swing. I
haven't thought anything in my swing. So
you could go from over the top to
crispy.
Over the top
to crispy. Watch the difference in these
swings. I'm not even thinking too much.
Get this arm under.
Sometimes I I'm blown away like this is
magic, but it's just physics and
geometry at work. But those two shots
incredibly different. One went dead left
slow and probably going to result in me
chucking my club into the woods or lake.
And then the second one was perfect
center of the face. You can see the mark
right there
still on the face. By the way, the first
one was off the toe. If arm position is
that powerful, why are you neglecting
it?
Stop neglecting your setup. Those of you
who neglect your setup are doomed to
fail. I believe Thomas Jefferson or Ben
Franklin wrote that sometime in like
1737. Yeah. And they may have been born
then when they discovered electricity.
They discovered that the arm had to be
under and not over.
Okay. So, I've just showed you posture
and a very important arm piece.
Both are essential.
You need good posture for the arms to
work correctly.
Now, we're going to build on that and go
into a very important piece that
nothing else will work. And this what I
consider is the fireworks of the swing.
When I think about something that gets
your swing working and all pieces
working together, gets great contact,
allows you to generate more swing speed,
I think about weight forward. So, by
placing the weight forward,
meaning I'm pushing my hips more toward
the target. And if you watched my long
drive video last week, you'll know all
about this. That right there allows you
to turn a ton effortlessly. So a bigger
back swing without work,
more swing speed. But another thing is
contact
weight forward and being anchored
forward throughout the swing keeps my
contact in the same spot ahead of that
ball every single time.
And then some of you are wondering, how
do I start my down swing? Do I fire my
hips? How do I get enough hip bump? How
do I turn my hips at the right time? Let
the weight forward do it. So, anchor the
weight forward and as I swing through,
watch the hips. They move forward and
they turn.
Crisis averted.
Swing mysteries solved. Hope right now
you're seeing the benefits of anchoring
weight forward. And when we do this in
the beginning, when you first do this, I
want you to put a ton of weight there.
You can't screw up your swing path with
the weight forward. Cuz if you come over
the top, weight goes back. If you flip,
weight goes back. So, think of this as
the end all beall nuclear option red
button of great ball striking. We're
going to Defcon one.
So, we're going to put all the weight
forward.
I'm going to set up like 100% of my
weight forward just to show you. We're
go here. Really getting in there. Got
the same posture, arm position as
before. The good arm position. Anchor
the weight and sway.
Oh, that was so good. I feel like Mo
Norman when I Oh, okay. You got to hit
it. You got to hit it. That was good.
Oh, yeah.
And you'd think, Tom, well, you're just
a you just come online. You're a
professional golfer, so you're already
good at this stuff. This is stuff I
teach to beginners, intermediate
players, advanced players. It is
timeless across all skill levels. It
applies to all skill levels.
And it presets great ball striking. I've
taken beginners on day one where they
start like this. We get into this
position. They anchor the weight forward
and they swing and they're able to
create this type of impact position.
Intermediate players, same thing. I'm
flipping. I've been flipping my whole
life. Do this. The second you do this,
swing the shoulders. Boom. All the way
through.
This is something that will change you
in one shot because it's what? Setup.
Because we could we could just do it
again. I mean, what's there's no there's
no pain in hitting another crispy shot.
Well, the pain is my wallet because I'll
be hitting so many golf balls. I have to
go back and get more.
So, we nudge. This is 100% weight
forward just for fun. Keep it there.
There it is again. Ball divot strike.
That is like bazookas.
Okay, so this is a great starting point
and it's all part of stuff I'm teaching
in my free ball striking miniourse,
Become a Great Ball Striker. Go to
go.sugo. I'll show you how to build on
these concepts to apply them to your
swing. And it's a 13-day training
program that just gets you rifling the
ball. So, we're going to incorporate
more concept like shoulder turn, how do
you start down, some of the more finer
points. We start here in the setup,
though. All right, I can't leave you
without first showing you this concept.
And that is something I taught in a
recent episode with coach Joe Madden of
the Tampa Bay Rays Cubs World Series
champ. He was great. I mean, he was
striping the ball after we did this tip,
just ripping it.
And this works for irons and driver, but
we're looking at something so simple.
Everybody is taught nowadays to just
lean away from the target with every
club. Make sure you get a good lean
away. This is killing your ball
striking. Okay, if I want to top it or
thin it, that's what I'm going to do.
So, let's lean away or maybe chunk it.
Could definitely chunk it cuz there's my
contact point. When I lean away, I'm
swinging a lot out to the right. The
only way I can touch the ball is by
thinning it or topping it. Oh my
goodness, that was so solid.
a solid thin top,
cold top, cold turkey top.
So
that's just a byproduct of your spine
tilt. The more you lean away, the more
you run the risk of topping, thinning,
chunking.
Instead of that, work around keeping
your spine vertical. So,
so from this position, contact point
changed immediately. So, from here and
let's get this to show you
my contact point changed immediately.
Look at this.
The only way I can get to the ball from
that old position is by pulling the arms
in and flipping and scooping. But the
second I change to here, vertical,
watch,
I'm hitting at the stick or in front of
the stick. So, I change from back here
to now in front of the stick. That's
really cool. And I didn't change my
swing to accomplish that. The big myth
is that you need to do all these things
in your swing to hit the ball well, but
you really just need to get your setup
straightened out.
Your swing is your setup. Your setup is
your swing. Arm spine vertical. Keep the
spine over the ball.
Swing. Hit ball first. Take a divot
after it. It's a beautiful strike.
Just by changing setup, I can change my
entire swing to go from
inconsistent
to powerful, consistent ball striking.