I'm at Impact Golf Malaysia with the
famous Eric Chong, who we know once you
go Chong, you never go wrong. And I'm
coming back to Malaysia for a touchup on
my swing. I I'm a bit worried about
coming in too steep and digging,
especially with my wedges. And down to
my mid irons. The longer clubs, I find I
don't have much problem like swaying or
digging, but when it comes to the mid
irons down to the wedge, I feel like I'm
coming in too steep and I can't shallow
it out at all,
taking huge divots.
Can I just get maybe five or six more
shots?
H I won't need any more than that, mate.
I got enough. I wanted to get, you know,
five or 10 shots, but I sort of saw it
after one or two. So, from the top of
the back swing here, I would love for
you to hold off
your shoulders a little bit
and try to sling draw it from there. So,
this is where I feel like it's just a
little too steep in my opinion, right
there.
Um, if you draw a line down into the
golf ball, uh, you would see that your
line from the from your club head to
your hands quite a lot inside that. And
I just feel like if you could just shut
that off just a little earlier and just
try to hit it a little bit right, it
would help this
movement right here. It's just your
hands are almost just a touch too far in
front of you at this stage. And halfway
down, your hands are basically in front
of your chest. I would love to see that
like an inch or so further back uh more
more towards your right bicep and that
would automatically help flatten out the
shaft. Your club path, your swing
direction and your attack angle. It's
probably a little too deep. So attack
angle is how the club sort of travels
downward. So golf ball here, back swing
here, it's just a little too steep and
deep this way. Uh which is not good for
ball contact, but it's not bad bad if
that makes sense. It's it's within
range, right? The biggest thing that I
sort of see is your swing direction and
your club path. It's working too far
left.
All right. So, anything that wants to go
left is generally a little bit more what
we most golfers would say over the top
out to in. I would probably like to see
this not look as steep and just a little
bit flatter, but doesn't mean that we're
going to change the back swing. I think
your back swing is in a good spot.
Anytime I sort of see these to two two
numbers here or these three numbers, um,
I sort of kind of know, okay, we're
we're definitely fighting steepness
issues. Club path is the direction the
club head is moving right or left at
impact and is measured relative to the
target line. A positive value means the
club is moving to the right of the
target at impact. We call that into out.
And a negative value which I have means
that it's moving to the left of the
target out to in. So it starts outside
the target line before the ball and then
goes to the inside of the target line
after I hit the ball. The attack angle
is measured relative to the horizon.
Attack angle is the up or down movement
of the club at the time of maximum
compression. A PGA tour average 6 iron
is -3.7°.
I have -6.7°.
So my swing is not only from the outside
in, it's also very steep, 3° steeper
than a PGA tour player. Swing direction
uses hundreds of points from the club
head during the down swing to help
describe the golfer swing. So for me,
having a negative swing direction is
also regarded as over the top. It kind
of works similar to club path except the
swing direction uses many more points
than just impact. Generally a half
circle from knee height to knee height
in the down swing. Mine is minus 7.1. So
it's going well left and very over the
top.
So I mean this is the thing. It's like
if we can fix that club path and swing
direction not through the aiming
but actually what actually happens then
that's going to be the key. This is This
is almost like impossible to touch
after, let's say, four days in a row.
I'd have to take three or four days to
rest because it's so sore.
Yeah. That's not good.
Yeah.
That's when you really know.
You're not going to get that stuck, jam,
jarring feeling that you're talking
about.
Yeah. So, it gets sore here and even
before this, if I don't play for like,
let's say, a month or or 5 weeks, it
gets sore in here.
Yeah. It it it leads
Okay.
It it sort of leads out. you know,
someone who always says they got like
elbow problems, wrist problems, and all
that sort of stuff. Generally, I find
that it's either a body issue or a
steepening of the shaft. And if we can
get that just a little shallower,
problem solved. Contact is going to
dramatically improve, especially off the
face and through the turf. So, you know,
like Manny, I've always believed a lot
of people learn golf in different ways,
whether it's club fitting or or or less
stuff. You know, we can either try and
do these things visually. Let's just try
and give you like a scare or a a at
least a visual target of what you're
trying to do. Let's see if that changes
your numbers. If we if that doesn't kind
of work as well as I need to, then we'll
either like chuck your body into certain
positions that need that like maybe
something we might need to just tweak or
whether we need to do something very
very feel related. What I remember in
the past
when I gave you little cues,
if I kept it really simple, it worked
great for you. When we got overly
technical, you start trying to
manufacture right? I want you to
aim exactly how you would for the 170.
But I'm going to try and get you to hit
what I call a sling draw. Remember that
hook shot around the tree that we used
to do? It's almost like a mini version
of that. What we need to get you to do
is to aim well right of that and get the
club face aiming
at that tree.
All right. And all you're going to do is
you're going to swing along. So I want
your hand path to swing along your feet
line.
Great.
There you go.
There you go, mate.
Wow. That's amazing. A a really good
analogy would be something along the
lines of like a tennis shot or a table
tennis shot where you're coming from the
inside. You're trying to hit a top spin
forehand.
Yes.
Absolutely.
First things first, let's get the visual
cue first. Let's see if this makes a
difference. I put the blue stick down
here for your feet line. I just I'm I'm
a bit worried when I try to get someone
to do this, they start to shuffle their
body and their feet, and it gives them a
false sense of what this does. So, I
want the same alignment. Uh, but the
pink stick is kind of like where I
That's your visual cue for your club
head.
So, it's it's more you can see that
wants to go a little bit right. I put
another golf ball in front but aimed a
little a little bit right like 15 20
yards right of of the 170. Basically I
want you to get your golf ball starting
over the other golf ball following the
pink line
but with normal body alignment. You're
going to aim you're going to do
everything exactly how you would have
done for the 170 before you before you
aimed it.
And all I want you to think of is just
start that golf ball over the other golf
ball.
Well, that was immediate.
Okay, let's have a look at this straight
away.
Look at your numbers. Club pass swing
direction. That's pretty much exactly
where I want it.
Okay.
And then look at your attack angle.
Yeah, I saw it going to 3.7 now. What is
it? 63 63 65 or whatever plus+.
Uh this would be a really simple way of
just putting everything back on on the
highway again. Um, you can do that
visually. It's Now, why did that go
left?
That was actually your worst left shot.
It's only because your face angle was
too closed.
I can I could feel like I was trying
turn it over too much.
Yeah. I could
um
But that's that feeling I'm telling you
with my wrist. I can I can literally
feel it at at impact. And sometimes when
I watch my videos back, it almost feels
like for the nancond, it's like I almost
stop at the ball.
It looks like a jerk. Yeah.
I think when you've got anything like
this, you're going to have it.
So, what I would say to you is I want
that same club feeling where the club
sort of like trying to hit it over the
the other golf ball. The difference is
that you don't need to turn or roll your
hands on it.
Okay.
Wow. That's different.
Wow.
I mean, that's that's beautiful.
That gave me goosebumps again. I think
it's the second [laughter] the second
time I had goosebumps here.
It's a magic room, mate. Perfect. Minus
4 and a half. Your numbers are virtually
all neutral. Like I I like to see a
little bit of negative on my iron. It's
just a personal preference. Um some
people like to see even a little bit of
positive, but when it's very very close
couple degrees to zero, I'm aok. Okay.
But to go from that
and that's your straightest one. Why?
Because your face angle now sort of
matches out. You just have less roll.
what it means to have face angle of
minus and and and plus.
Uh so I would say to you if that was
straight a closed club face would be
this.
Is that a minus or a plus number?
Minus. And that would be a plus. That
would be more of a face thing, right?
But like that there is problem solved.
You can see how clean and how the the
like almost like the club just wants to
glide through. It doesn't feel stuck. It
doesn't feel jammed and jar. It feels
like when I get down here, um, the club
head weight takes over.
Okay.
Before before my feeling was get down
here,
you know, anytime that the club is off
plane is too steep or whatever or under
plane or whatever, club always feels
heavy.
So when it's when it's on plane,
set up angles and it works on plane,
everything feels light.
That's kind of when you know you're on
plane. ah you know that lightness you're
talking about and you you know the I've
always said this um people who come for
fitting always understand it when I say
it but when I can get them to neutralize
their golf swing so to speak I can go as
heavy as I want you know a lot of people
who come through they're always like oh
my feel too heavy and then 3 months
later it's too light it's heavy
so I mean it's just trying to keep I I
always say try and keep on the highway
and not getting yourself off too far you
weren't far off but you just off. Um
it's quite if you look at your previous
ones, I mean that's that's excessive.
That's too much for me.
Okay. So, I'm looking at what you do.
Your body's fine. I don't see massive
overextension.
I don't see anything that sort of jars
out at me. But when I saw you hit those
three shots, the numbers I knew straight
away. Your problems that you're you're
getting, I understand straight away.
contact in the ball flight. I know
straight away like it's like, "Okay, we
got issues with your path and and swing
direction. Let's sort that out, mate.
You're you're you're in a good happy
spot there right now." And it can be
that simple.
The other thing I was concerned about
was the feeling of rotating back onto
the outside of my right foot.
Mhm.
Is that something you notice or is am I
not actually doing?
Yeah. I sort of have always seen you,
you never get your your right leg, right
ankle, right inner heel looking inward
into the golf ball. For me, it's like
pick your battles. Is that going to be
the difference between you shooting 74
and and 68? No. [laughter] I could look
at any golf swing, even mine, and just
go, "God damn, I hate this. I hate that.
I hate that." I like I I just pick the
biggest chunks that can give you your
best feelings, your best ball flights,
give you satisfaction. Like I don't like
over I like keeping things very simple.
I mean in all frankness that's your
lesson done.
Yeah. I have I haven't hit a ball like
that.
I mean that that to me is money all day
long. Just for you to go from there from
sorry
from your your first couple
- 2 and a half - 7. Let's just forget
all of this for the for the time being.
and these two
and to go it.
Wow. Wow. Wow. I I would always try and
find the in my way because I've known
you and I know what works for you.
That's the way I would approach your
type of golf lesson. If people weren't
wired your way and you couldn't do a
visual thing or didn't have the
coordination to do it or feel to do it,
then maybe I might do something with
how the wrist work or how the elbow
works or how the shoulder works to
shallow them out. You know, that might
be something I might do. Another way I
would probably do that to shallow
someone out would be, you know, put them
on a baby baby tea and just keep trying
to clip it off the tea.
Okay, let's try let's try that. Let's
see how that works.
Can do
just for people to see. Okay, so this
one, this is the one that would already
before even doing it, I'm already like
apprehensive. No hand flickage, no
rolling of the face. All you're trying
to do is just trim it,
catch it as clean as you can, and let's
just see what happens. Okay.
Well, I didn't think that was going to
happen.
I mean, great numbers.
What is it doing? That's like crazy.
It's It just changes the plane
difference. It just gives you a
different planal area to work into. So,
it's like this is more of like a
repetitive repetition thing. I would
either for for someone like Audrey in
the past, what I do is I'd actually get
her sticking on a because she was
working on a grass range, right, in
America. So, I would get her on a slope
and I would just stop that steepening
movement. So the minute the ball's above
your feet, you don't want to steepen
out. I mean, dude, you're the fixes that
I like to give, I like to keep them
super simple. I hate overly technical
things. It just drives me to the end of
the world. Nothing bors me more than
talking about X and Y factors and power
accumulators 1 2 3 4 and five. And
are those real things or you just make
Yeah, I mean that's just just drives me
bonkers. The same thing with club
fitting, right? There's so much
technical jargon out there. Um, I just
want to just keep really, really
simple. And I think I Yeah, I think it's
probably beneficial for a lot of social
golfers just to
[laughter] just keep it simple.
But this is your fastest, quickest way
to get on the golf course, start
enjoying it, feel better through the
turf,
strike a little bit better, hit a little
bit more online, less ball movement. I
mean this is this is all you