Hey guys, welcome back to the channel.
Today I'm going to show you four tips
that have helped me the most and that I
would teach myself if I started playing
golf all over again. These are tips that
have helped me tremendously, that I have
learned later in my playing career. I
truly believe that if I had known them
earlier, I would be much further ahead
than I am now. All right, no wasting
time. Let's get into it. So, the
foundation of any golf swing, number
one, first and foremost, is the grip.
All right. We want to make sure that our
grip matches our intent and what we're
trying to do. For me personally, I've
gone through a couple of grips changes
in my golfing career. When I first
started out, I had a very weak grip. I
think it's best personally for the V's
to be fairly neutral to strong. Okay?
So, weak would be more of this type of
look where this V here is pointed
straight to somewhere in the lead
shoulder, right? And that's going to get
the hands more on top. It's going to
make it harder to shut the club face.
Neutral is going to be where those V's
are mostly pointed up towards the chin
to even slightly to the trail side of
center. A stronger grip is going to be
turning those V's more towards the trail
side. Right? So, this V is pointed more
to my right shoulder now. And I can see
a good amount of that logo or maybe a
couple of knuckles on that hand. When we
put on the other hand, no matter what
grip we take, We want to line up those
V's. So, I'm going to throw this thumb
here into my lifeline right between the
two pads.
And then I'm going to grip it on.
Whether it's the baseball grip, whether
it's the overlap grip, interlock,
doesn't really matter. We're lining up
those those pads
and we're going to get those V's. You
notice that they're both pointed pretty
much to my right shoulder. So for most
amateurs, that's kind of where I would
recommend them starting somewhere
between neutral and strong. We
definitely don't want weak when we
definitely don't want it to be extremely
strong where you can see all of your
knuckles here cuz that's just going to
make that club face want to shut down.
We're going to make all sorts of
compensations. My miss is a hook. So I
don't want my grip to get too strong cuz
that's obviously going to make it easier
for that face to shut down. So I'm
always focusing on getting it more
neutral. Um, I find neutral by basically
holding it up with my right hand and
I'll just kind of grip it down here.
I'll hold it out in front of me and then
I'll grip with my left hand. Keeping it
in this position and close to me just
helps. It's really hard to get it
strong. Xander Schoffley does this.
You'll see him do this before shots
sometimes. He'll hold it here. He'll
grip it and then he'll step into the
shot. So, that's kind of how I learned
it. But just holding in front and then
gripping with my left hand, there's only
so much over that I can make it without
really having to twist myself and it
feels awkward. And so I'll just make
I'll just get it where it feels
comfortable and then get on with my
other grip. And pretty much it becomes
pretty neutral. It's where I like to
have it just kind of neutral to ever so
slightly strong. So once we have our
grip set up and we've decided whether we
want to be more neutral or more strong,
then we're going to go into release. So
honestly, the release, I like to have it
to be kind of natural and just match up
with the grip. But how we set our hands
on the club is going to dictate how we
release that club naturally and how we
can square it up. So there's a couple
different releases that we can talk
about. We have the roll release where my
wrists are going to roll pretty
dramatically,
right? So those forearms are going to
almost kind of like pass each other as
we go through. Usually this lead side
will turn down or kind of bow and then
turn down, right? That's going to, as
you can see, the club face as I turn it
down, you can see that club face
shutting. If you have a very weak grip,
so say my grip is turned this way, it's
really the only way that I'm going to
square up the club face. So, if my hands
are really on top here, as you can see,
as it comes through, it's going to be
open if I don't turn those hands down
and roll it through. So, when I first
started playing golf, I had a weak grip.
I tended to want to really roll the
wrist in order to I had basically had to
in order to square up the club face. I
had to roll those wrists over. When my
dad was teaching me to play golf, he
kind of taught me a certain way to go
about it. And that was more of what I'm
going to show you right now, the throw
release. When you're throwing the club,
like I said, you you have to have a
little stronger grip, at least neutral.
And then what you're going to do is as
the club head comes in, you're going to
see it square up because of my neutral
grip. I don't have to turn that down.
And from there, we're going to let that
club head sort of naturally pass the
body and rehinge. And so what you'll see
here is my left wrist or my lead wrist
is not flat and turned down. It's
actually hinging and cupping almost, but
it's cupping and that club face is
staying fairly square because of my
grip. A great drill that I used to be
able to learn that is called the lobster
claw drill or claw drill. That's how I
learned it. The setup reminds me of a
lobster claw. So, this is how I learned
to release the club. And I think it's a
great drill if you're having trouble
holding on and not letting it release.
You take your trail hand and you just
make a little lobster claw. So, I take
my first two fingers here. I put them on
the club like that and I grip. So my
other hand is gripping it normally and
then I'm lobster clawing my first two
fingers. That takes that ability to grip
it out of the equation. And so basically
my right hand is kind of almost along
for the ride. It's providing some
stability, but it's mostly along for the
ride. And what you'll find is if you do
that, you can't really steer that
release. It's just going to kind of let
the club swing. And if the club swings,
it's naturally probably going to throw.
So what I would do is actually hit balls
like that, right? Make make my lobster
claw and then hit a shot,
right? And so you'll see there, the club
will naturally want to pass the body. It
will pass the hands and you'll get that
natural throw release. But once you get
that feel of the club head passing, then
you get back to your normal grip and you
try to maintain that same feel and allow
that club to just throw past your body.
Right? So, in the end, there's no right
or wrong as far as whether you roll the
club or whether you throw the club. It's
more dependent on the matchup with your
grip. If you have a weaker grip, you're
going to naturally turn it down and roll
it. If you have a little bit of a
stronger grip, you're going to naturally
let that club face pass and rehinge with
a little bit of cup. It's just a matchup
for your grip. Real quickly, if you're
enjoying this video, don't forget to
like and subscribe. I just recently
learned 70% of you guys that watch my
videos are not yet subscribed to the
channel. It's an easy, no cost way to
support me and help me stay motivated so
I can continue to bring you great
content. If you could do that for me, I
would really appreciate it. Back to the
show. So number two on our list of
things I would do if I had to start golf
over again pertains to wrist angles.
Let's talk about steep or flat. When I
talk about steep, the main thing I'm
talking about is where is the butt of
the club pointing, right? So that
creates our shaft plane. So when we take
it back, if I have a steeper plane, the
butt of the club is going to be pointing
more down. All right? So neutral, a
neutral plane, you're going to get that
butt of the club pointing pretty much on
a plane
along the target line. So as I take it
back, right, I'm taking it down the
target line. Once I get here, the butt
of the club is pointed at the target.
And then once I hinge, we want more or
less we're looking at, is that butt of
the club pointed down the target line?
Is it pointed inside, right? more
towards our feet, which is going to make
it steeper, or is it pointed outside in
front of the target line, which is going
to be more flat? How do we get in that
position? What's an easy way to find
that position? So, this is going to be
really a hack. If you can learn this
early on, it's really going to help you.
So, what I found out is if I hinge up
the club, I can actually set my wrist
early and not have to do too much later
in the swing. If we're looking at steep
or shallow, this is going to be very
steep. If I just hinge up my hands like
this and I take it back, right, the butt
of the club is going to be pointed
pretty much straight down at the ground.
So, that's going to be a very steep
plane. On the other hand, if I hinge it
up and I rotate, right, some people call
this the Nick Faldo drill. You rotate
the wrist back to where now the butt of
the club is pointing at the target and I
take it back, you'll notice I'm in a
very flattened position. Now, the butt
of the club is pointing well above the
target line. So you can play around with
this and find what your ideal wrist
position is. I like to be in between
those and I think most people are going
to be in between those. So what I like
to do, so I'll hinge it up and I like to
be somewhere in the middle. So I'll go
to about 45Â° or so. Right? So now the
butt of the club is pointed somewhere
around my lead thigh. Now we're in a
good position to where if I take it
back, you'll notice now the butt of the
club is pretty much pointed directly at
that target line. If you want to really
hack your back swing and find the
perfect position from there, just move
your hands a little bit backwards. All
you have to do is raise the arms up and
make your turn, right? And it sets you
in a perfect back swing position. If I
don't move my arms and I come back to
start, this is what it would look like.
My right arm is externally rotated, my
hands are slightly off my center, and my
wrists are in that 45Â° angle. Right?
That's literally all the back swing is.
You raise the arms, you get in your
posture, you make your turn, and you're
perfectly on plane. From there,
literally all you have to do is drop
your arms as you rotate through. It's
there, and then it's there. And you'll
notice that's directly down the line on
the plane. From there, I'm just dropping
my arms back to that same position.
I get a little transition, I rotate, my
arms drop, and it delivers the club
directly online. The next thing that I
would teach myself if I had to start
playing golf all over again is low point
control. Where am I contacting the turf?
PJ Tour average is 4 in ahead of the
ball. So they hit the ball and then that
low point of their actual swing is 4 in
ahead, right? So their divot will start
just after the ball, but the deepest
part of their divot will be 4 in ahead.
So what does that mean? Means we need to
learn to contact the ground at or ahead
of the ball. So, the way I learned this
when I was first starting to play golf
was hitting a line on the ground. So, I
would get on the grass. I would kind of
put a line down um either, you know,
some leaves or I would just kind of
visually or mentally make a line and I
would just make swings trying to hit
that line and just making kind of chips
and just making sure I could kind of
contact the same point every time and
just brush that grass until I felt
pretty confident that I could do that.
And then as I got better at it, then I
would start adding in body, start making
that swing longer,
right?
And then little by little, going faster
until I felt like I could just hit that
ground every time in that same spot. So,
I'm all about visualizations. A really
good visualization that I've always used
in order to help me more clearly control
my low point and hit the ball solid is
essentially I picture this little point
between the ball and the ground. So this
little where the ball and the ground
comes to meet. I picture that in my
mind's eye and that's where I try to
stick the leading edge of the club. So
when I swing, I'm picturing, okay, what
would it take to be able to stick the
leading edge of the iron right perfectly
in that little crevice? And I try to
picture the club coming down at about a
30Â° angle or so. Right? So coming down
like this
and sticking perfectly in that crevice.
So, I'm picturing picturing the exact
angle that I'm coming in. That's
creating that little bit of delayed
release. And then I'm releasing it and
sticking it right in that crevice,
right? And releasing through. And from
that point, I'm just kind of letting the
club go. I'm not holding on to it. I'm
just sticking it and letting it go. All
right. So, now we have our grip dialed,
right? We know how to set the club
properly. we can find our low point and
we're hitting the ball as solid as we've
ever hit it. Now, it's time to be able
to create a little bit of flow. So, this
is one thing that is the absolutely most
important thing to creating speed. It's
called the doublestep drill. There's a
couple ways that I like to go about
this. The key is that we want to create
a pressure shift. When I was younger in
my golfing life, I was so concerned
about accuracy that I gave up a lot of
speed and my scores struggled because of
it. We know now that creating speed,
particularly w with driver, is the most
important thing to lowering scores.
You're going to get in your golf
position or golf posture. You're going
to start with your feet together. We're
going to swing the club forward to about
waist height. We're going to let our
body go ahead and turn. Don't restrict
your body and just move the club. Let
everything turn through to waist height.
We're going to start swinging it back,
but before we do, we're going to make a
step backwards. And it's going to be
kind of like a half step, not a big
step. Right? So, we're swinging it
forward just before we get to waist
height. So, as we're about halfway,
we're going to make start making a step
back. Right? So, it's going to look like
this.
Right? So, we're coinciding that. At
that point, I'm actually pushing into my
right side or my trail side to create
that change of direction. So, I'm
pushing into the ground. I'm creating
that change of direction. It's going to
create a little bit of speed and we're
going to swing the club back to full.
Now, we're going to do the same thing
with the front foot that we did with the
back foot. Right? So, as we swing that
club back with a little bit of speed,
we're going to now make our half step
forward with our front foot. And we're
going to do that pretty much. We're
going to start that as the club is
passing the ball. All right? So, it's
going to look like this. Forward step.
Now, we're pushing into the ground.
We're swinging it. As we pass the ball,
we're going to make our step forward.
Swing it to completion. And we can
actually stop there just to get the
timing. All right. This is teaching us
the proper way to shift pressure early
back and early through.
We don't want to be waiting till late to
start shifting our pressure back because
what's going to happen is as we get to
the top, we're going to be stuck back
here and we're going to start swinging
down and then we can't get off our back
side and then we're trying to push off
and we're end up hanging back and we end
up never shifting our pressure into our
lead leg. And golf is played off the
lead leg. We want to get back early so
that we can get forward early. That's
really the way to creating speed and
creating compression of the golf ball.
So, we're starting with our feet
together, swing it forward, step, swing
it back, step.
From there, we can add in the speed.
Right? That's going to start setting up
proper what we call kinetic sequencing
or in other words using our pressure
shift using the ground in in order to
really be able to push off the ground
early and speed up that club head. Get
athletic with the driver. Don't be
afraid to sway. Don't be afraid to
shift. We obviously don't want our hips
going outside of our feet, but we want
that pressure shift. every good driver
of the ball has that early pressure
shift back and then that pressure shift
early in the transition in order to
really transfer the energy to the club
head because that's what it's all about.
If you want to deep dive further into
this and gain access into numerous
drills and exercises just like this one
to help you level up your kinetics and
hit the ball farther, check out my GSHB
performance app. We'll leave a link to
it in the description below.
Hey guys, just really quickly, I wanted
to let you know what I've been up to
lately. I've spent the last 2 years
building the most unique and
comprehensive golf performance programs
in the world, and now I'm making them
available to you on my brand new GSHB
performance app. Inside, you'll find 50
plus programs aimed at preventing injury
while improving strength, power, and
mobility. You'll also get swing drills,
nutrition tools, progress tracking, and
support from a community of like-minded
golfers. If you're serious about golf
performance and long-term health, if you
want to hit it farther, straighter, and
more consistently without pain, if you
want a body that makes golf feel easier,
not harder, then this is the best deal
you will ever see. Click the link to try
it risk- free for