Tron Ars.
Sorry, Tron. Aries.
Actually, no, I'm not sorry because it
is ars.
Anyway, it's without doubt one of the
dumbest, most pointless, and creatively
bankrupt movies I've seen all year. And
that's up against some pretty stiff
competition. Believe that. It's a film
that feels like it was made with the
sole intention of deconstructing the
entire franchise, neatly sidestepping
and erasing everything that was set up
in the previous film. I mean, I've got
plenty of issues with Tron Legacy, but
that movie was a godamn masterpiece
compared to this. Introducing a bunch of
new characters that are about as
interesting as a 3-day spreadsheet
convention played by actors with all the
charisma and dramatic range of Bella
Ramsey's forehead
and predicated entirely on one concept.
Wouldn't it be cool if people from Tron
could come into our worlds? No. No, it
[ __ ] wouldn't. And this movie is
proof of that. It's proof that not only
can Disney not be trusted as the
custodians of other people's IPs that
they bought their way into, they can't
even be trusted to manage their own
[ __ ] IPs at this point. Take off.
Anyway, let's short this review out like
the watery post Vindaloo anal excretion
that it is. Tron Ars is set sometime
after the events of Tron Legacy and
centers around the rivalry between two
major tech firms. Dillinger systems
overseen by the grandson of the bad guy
from the first movie because I guess
major publicly traded tech corporations
operate like royal dynasties in this
world and the position of CEO gets
passed from father to son
right and on the other side is encom led
by strong diverse female character.
Guess which one turns out to be the good
guys. I mean, I'm pretty sure that
strong, diverse female character has a
name, but honestly, who gives a [ __ ] at
this point? She's just another in the
depressingly long list of empty,
generic, personalityfree, strong female
characters churned out by modern-day
Disney. And I kid you not, the actress
playing her makes Galgadot look like
Katherine Hburn by comparison. She
drifts through the movie with the kind
of blankfaced stare of an NPC that
hasn't had its dialogue triggered yet.
She runs with all the speed and finesse
of an 80-year-old landmine victim. And
by the end of the film, I felt like I
knew absolutely nothing about her. And
to be honest, I was perfectly fine with
that. Oh, yeah. And in case you were
wondering what became of Sam Flynn, who
was the CEO at the end of the previous
movie, well, he apparently retired
because reasons.
Well, I'm convinced. Anyway, both
corporations are using magical [ __ ]
laser technology to magic things into
existence. In the case of strong diverse
female character, she wants to create
beneficial things like crops and medical
supplies to combat world hunger. While
evil white guy wants to create soldiers
and weapons to blow stuff up because men
bad and violent and women good and
altruistic.
You sure about that?
You sure about that?
[ __ ] off, Tron Ars. The problem faced by
both of them is that anything they bring
into existence with the magical [ __ ]
lasers can only maintain its structural
integrity for 29 minutes. Why 29
minutes? Don't [ __ ] know. It's just
an arbitrary time limit that the film
imposes. And the only way to overcome
this limitation is through the magical
[ __ ] permanence code that Kevin
Flynn hid deep within his own computer
network like it's [ __ ] pirate
treasure or something. Because I'm sure
in 2025 we really struggle to replicate
the mind-boggling complexity of early
1980s computer codes. What are you
[ __ ] When Strong Ziverse female
character manages to get her hands on
the code, evil white guy uses the
magical [ __ ] laser to bring Aries
and another computer program called
Athena into the real world to recover it
from her by sucking her into the
computer world and then forcefully
extracting it from her brain. Because
that's a thing you can totally do, I
guess.
[ __ ] Unfortunately, Aries starts to
have second thoughts, disobys his
programming, and goes on the run with
strong, diverse female character. So,
then Athena chases after them and uses
the magical [ __ ] lasers to make one
of those giant flying tank things, even
though it was many times larger than the
building it was created in. So, I've got
no idea how that was supposed to work,
but who even cares? Let's just go with
it. Then it all culminates in a big
battle between Aries and Athena where he
kicks her ass, gets the permanence code
injected into him so he can become a
real person, and goes off to start a new
life in Mexico or something as computer
Jesus.
[ __ ] Lord have mercy on my soul, for I
have experienced Tron Ars. I mean, what
can I even say about this movie except
that it was a particularly unwise way to
spend $180 million? It's a film whose
entire plot revolves around a concept
that nobody particularly wanted to see
in the first place. Bringing the world
of Tron into our reality. You know,
there was a kind of magical dreamlike
quality to the original Tron. A feeling
of setting foot in a truly alien world
vastly different from our own and
embarking on an epic adventure with
outlandish characters and visually
striking locations. Yeah, the animation
was rudimentary by today's standards,
but I think that actually worked in its
favor. It was literally a visual
representation of computer programs
interacting with each other. It was
supposed to look stark and simplistic
and weird. The light cycles and the
recognizers looked awesome in context
because you understood what they
represented in a computer world, but
porting them over into the real world
just makes them seem goofy and
pointless. There was potential to
explore the moral implications of
creating AI life forms and how they
would even begin to experience our
reality when they've never even felt
physical sensations before. But none of
it really goes anywhere. The script's
not even remotely interested in picking
up any of the philosophical threads it
leaves dangling. Not when we can have
another bitching bike chase or watch a
recognizer rampaging through a city like
it's Godzilla or something. Or have
Jared Leto acting like he's a modern-day
messiah. Actually, I'm not entirely
convinced he was acting in this movie at
all or if someone just told him, "Your
time has come, Jareds." I mean, how does
a physically manifested computer program
even function in the real worlds? Does
he have to eat, sleep, crap? Is he going
to age? Will he feel pain? Can he be
damaged? I don't [ __ ] know because
the movie doesn't seem to know either or
care. The dialogue is so on the nose
that it actually feels like audio
descriptions of what's going on,
carefully spelling out every single plot
point and event in case for some reason
you weren't paying attention. Actually,
in retrospect, that was probably a good
idea cuz my attention was definitely
wavering towards the ends. The cast is a
sad collection of has been and never
will be. Greta is probably best known
for her voiceover work, and that being
the case, she should probably stick to
it because she doesn't seem capable of
making actual facial expressions that I
can recognize. Evan Peters plays evil
white guy who's so functionally similar
to the [ __ ] genius from Alien Earth
that they're practically the same
character. Jodie Turner Smith
demonstrates the same level of acting
skill she displayed in The Acolyte. And
well, make of that what you will. Yes.
Yes.
On the other hand, Jillian Anderson is
completely wasted in a role that demands
absolutely nothing from her and a script
that doesn't even seem to know why she's
there. She would have made a [ __ ]
awesome antagonist. But then, who am I
kidding? The idea of Disney putting a
woman into a villainous role is more
absurd than James Gunn being honest
about the DCU's chances of success. Jeff
Bridges shows up for about 5 minutes to
collect what must have been a pretty
decent paycheck because he couldn't have
put in less effort if he [ __ ] faxed
in his performance.
Well, you know, that's just like uh your
opinion, man.
Ultimately, Tron Ars is a movie that
left me with one burning question when
it was all over. What exactly was the
point in this film? And to be honest, I
still can't answer it. It's a film made
for no other reason than to exploit
another old IP. a lazy, unfocused,
unimaginative rehash of something that's
already been done way better, adding
nothing to the franchise or the
discourse around it, and delivering
nothing to the audience except two hours
of [ __ ] soul crushing boredom. Do
yourself a big old favor, save your
money, and go do something more
productive, like laxatives.
Anyway, that's all I got for today. Go
away now.