Thank you, Sophie.
Thank you, Sophie Cunningham. I
appreciate you for confirming what we
all knew. Anyway, she confirmed it
without even trying to confirm it.
Y'all,
shout out to Sophie Cunningham. She was
on her podcast. I'm telling you, she
drop gems. She give us content every
time she she drop an episode. Keep this
podcast going, Sophie.
keep it rolling. She went on her podcast
and said
she was going on this whole tangent
about how yeah, you know, when these
teams got their systems, you know, you
kind of just got to learn and blend into
the system or it's just not going to go
well, yada yada yada. And then Caitlyn
Clark gets brought up. And what happens
is she confirms that Caitlyn Clark had
to change things in that system
so that she could try to play her game.
She jammed Stephanie White all the way
up. Stephanie White's system was not
catered to or built around Caitlyn
Clark. Make no mistake about it, and I'm
going to show and prove it to you.
Welcome to Keep the Vision. Make sure
you like, comment, subscribe, share the
channel, hit that bell notification.
Let's go. Sophie Cunningham was on her
podcast
and she got to talking about the Indiana
fever system and Stephanie White and
Kelsey Mitchell with Caitlyn Clark and
how it all meshes together. And long
story short, it wasn't meshing together.
Caitlyn Clark had to uh forcefully make
some changes. She had to. And let's
break it down. Go ahead, Sophie. I also
think that like they
go.
Oh, that's crazy. I didn't real I didn't
realize that. I just She's just young. I
just didn't
because those types of athletes, they
get to come into an organization, they
have the green light and they can do
whatever they want where that is very
rare
to get drafted and be able to control
the whole system,
right?
Did was CC making decisions
like
Yeah.
within Yeah. as she should.
As she should, but I also think that
like they
go.
Oh, that's crazy. I didn't real I didn't
realize that. I just She's just young. I
just didn't think that that
But but when you have a generational
talent like that, she should have a lot
to say of the system. I also think when
you have like when she got in with
Kelsey
now, now before she gets into the Kelsey
Mitchell part, Stephanie White, you knew
you were coming to the Indiana Fever.
you should already know the system
Caitlyn wants to play. Why did she have
to make changes to your system to play
her game? And we also know that this did
not go over so smoothly because we saw
Stephanie White taking shots at her on
TV. We saw the back and forth argument
when Caitlyn Clark was going off on her
in the tunnel during the Atlanta Dream
game when they were going into the
tunnel for halftime. We saw Stephanie
White play Caitlyn Clark at small
forward. We saw Caitlyn Clark play small
forward for an entire game. For an
entire game. So don't get it twisted.
Sophie is saying, "Yeah, Caitlyn Clark
has say so." D Caitlyn Clark had to go
and force herself to say, "Hey, what the
hell is going on? I'm not do all this
off ball stuff. You got me playing small
forward. I'm not getting to play my
game. I'm about to force some changes to
be made.
That that's what it is. But the fact of
the matter is it should not have come
down to that. You knew where you were
signing. You knew the player that the
team was built was was supposed to be
built around. You're supposed to have a
system in place that caters to her.
Matter of fact, you're supposed to build
the system with her. Hey, what do you
like? What do you want to run here? What
do you want to run there? How do you
like this? You're supposed to build this
thing out with her, not bring your
Connecticut system, have her playing
small forward for a handful of games,
and now she got to uh uh
change the system and and enforce her
power. Come on now. Come on now. You got
to read between the lines on some
things. You got to read between the
lines on some things here,
Mitchell. like those two they it is very
interesting to see how that they have.
It is interesting to see how they've
grown to be teammates because both of
them need the ball in their hands.
Okay. Yes, they both need the ball in
their hands, but the difference is
Kelsey Mitchell don't pass the ball once
it's in her hands. Caitlyn Clark does
pass the ball. Caitlyn Clark led the
league in assists. What are we talking
about here? What are we talking about?
What are we talking about? I get it.
Sophie is trying to make everybody.
She's trying to give this story while
making everyone look good as well. But
the fact of the matter is this is just
more of an indictment on Stephanie
White. That's all this is. You can't say
Caitlyn Clark, the system is built
around her and she's building out the
system, but at the same time you got her
playing small forward. At the same time,
when Caitlyn Clark is pulling up a logo
three, when she's busting Brianna
Stewart's eyeballs out from 38 ft,
Stephanie White looks pissed off on the
sideline.
When when when Caitlyn Clark is doing
her thing, Stephanie White calls it hero
ball, but she don't call it that when
Kelsey Mitchell was doing her thing. So,
who is Stephanie White really building
her system around? Caitlyn Clark or
Kelsey Mitchell?
But I think that they have
played together enough that they both
get that opportunity and when they both
can elevate each other, that team is
unstoppable.
You get what I'm saying?
I agree. When Caitlyn Clark and Kelsey
Mitchell are both playing like at a high
level and I do feel like they kind of
got they have good chemistry. Like we
saw it second half of the season, even
at points this season. Like I don't
think there was ever a Kelsey Mitchell,
Caitlyn Clark thing. I think it was a
Stephanie White system thing. That's how
I feel. I feel like Kelsey Mitchell is
she she's fast. She get up and down, but
she could score in the half court.
Stephanie White wanted to play in the
half court. She wasn't getting up and
down. And Caitlyn Clark's game is
non-stop breakneck uptempo getting up
and down. And CA and Stephanie White did
not want to run that system and they
collided. Now, Sophie Cunningham is
saying that, "Yeah, Kaitlin Clark
enforced her power and made changes as
she should." As she should. And we've
heard Sophie Cunningham in other
interviews say, "Hey, when Caitlyn
playing, we got to play a different
way." You know, it's a different system
when she play. As it should be. As it
should be. Like, if y'all didn't want to
play that way, y'all should have never
came. Y'all should have never showed up.
It's that simple. It's that simple. This
is more of an indictment on Stephanie
White if you ask me, man.
And yeah, also I guess you guys played
at Iowa this year.
Let me see.
Because those types of athletes, they
get to come into an organization, they
have the green light and they can do
whatever they want where that is very
rare
to get drafted and be able to control
the whole system,
right?
Did was CC making decisions
like
Yeah.
within Yeah. as she should.
As she should, but I also think that
like they
go.
Oh, that's crazy. I didn't real I didn't
realize that. I just She's just young. I
just didn't think that that
But but when you have a generational
talent like that, she should have a lot
to say of the system. I also think when
you have like when she got in with
Kelsey Mitchell, like those two, they it
it is very interesting to see how that
they have. It is interesting to see how
they've grown to be teammates because
both of them need the ball in their
hands. But I think that they have played
together enough that they both get that
opportunity and when they both can
elevate each other, that team is
unstoppable.
You get what I'm saying?
And fair point. Fair point. This is the
first comment. Look, it all started when
Steph said she didn't like CC playing
hero ball. And this was right after the
Liberty game where she hit those
backtoback threes in 38 seconds. Steph
was not happy about those shots she
took, but then turned around and told
Kelsey Mitchell and Ari McDonald to let
it fly. That is a fact. That is the
facts of the matter right there. Get
down in the comments. Let me know what
y'all think about this. This is Keep the
Vision. Make sure you like, comment,
subscribe, share the