the Titalist GT2, the Callaway Elite
driver, the Ping G440 driver, the
Tailormade Qi35.
Of all these big huge brandame drivers,
two drivers are on the comments the most
in YouTube videos and forums around the
world. It is, of course, the brand new
Tacomao Ignis D1 driver and the Costco
Kirkland signature driver. The reason
for this is that golf's getting far too
expensive and both these drivers offer
something totally different and let's
face it a cut price instead of these big
names. Guys, today we're going to test
these out here in the golf course and of
course in the studio see which one
performs best, which one you should be
buying. Should you go to Tacoma website
and splash your cash with the guys from
Finland? Or should you go to Costco, buy
some toilet roll, some toothpaste, a
kids bike randomly, a Spider-Man bike,
which I'm going to get Billy for
Christmas, and then a new 10 and a half
degree driver together with a carbon
fiber crown.
Let's find out. So, we're going to have
a little bit of a straight up matchplay
comparison with this Costco driver and
of course 2025 Tacomao because I think
golf has got too expensive. I think golf
clubs shouldn't cost 500, 600, even
Â£700. We get premium components in both
these drivers with a carbon crown on
both of them. And yes, the Tacoma does
have that interchangeable weighting
system, but we've got it set on the
standard weight with the heavy weight
right at the back, which is where the
only weight in this Costco driver is.
So, let's hit one down this fifth hole.
Quite a tight driving hole. A very
difficult T-shot. Lovely glossy looking
carbon crown here on the Costco. Can we
play a bit of a draw?
It's not a draw. It's leaking slightly.
That's just going to be in the right
hand roof. It's okay. It's fine. It's
going to be an okay playing shot. Now,
the Tacomao is a tiny bit more than the
Costco. But I think Tacomao are making
leaps and bounds within the golfing
market, within the golfing society of
people because we all know the name
Tacomao now. Three, four years ago,
nobody knew the name Tacomao. Nobody
knew the guys from Finland. Nobody knew
that you could buy, let's face it, DTOC
affordable golf clubs and save yourself
some money. Now, I think like everybody,
especially with the marketing, they with
the likes of the Brian Bros and Grant
Hov and everybody else, but none of them
actually use this driver yet. So, is it
any good? I've got a vent shaft in here,
which does come as standard. Can we go
one up on the Costco?
That's a lovely T- shot. That's actually
a draw. I've been trying to hit a draw
all year and that's done exactly what I
want it to. That's definitely a fairway
hit for 2. So that's a tick in the box
already. Has it gone any further than
the Costco? We all want that driver that
goes the furthest and gives us more bang
for buck. This could get interesting. So
everyone do me a favor. Get in the
comments below and let me know where do
you buy your golf clubs from? And how
often do you buy them? Do you go to your
local PJ Pro? Do you go to Dick Sporting
Goods, American Golf? Do you go to
Costco? And then when the MS or the
husband goes and does all the boring
stuff, do you go and look at the golf
stuff? Because I always, we literally
went to Costco the other day and Laura
was looking for like baby wipes and
other crap that you just buy in bulk
that you probably don't need. Now it's
straight to the golf. I was like, "Oh,
they've still got the driver in even
though I've got one." And I was like,
"Yeah, literally this is me." Yeah. But
I'm just a golf nut, I suppose.
Is it just me? And I do think golf is in
a better place. Not just because of the
guys at Tacoma, not just because what
Costco have been doing. Obviously,
Costco have had issues with lawsuits
because of the irons. And I believe they
had a problem with the ball as well at
some point. I do believe they took a
little bit of inspiration for this
driver from the titleist TS2, TSR2,
TSI2. Um, but that's not a bad thing. I
think as long I mean, they haven't just
stone cold copied it, have they? Stone
cold enter now. Anyway, but I do also
believe that because of what's happening
with this golfing market, the bigger
brands are being forced to kind of up
the game a little bit. I kind of wish
they'd be forced to lower the price
instead of up the game. But I do think
with some of the big brands, like I've
done a comparison today with Tacoma and
a Tailor-Made Qi35, for example, the
forgiveness factor is there. Like it's
very prominent. The forgiveness factor
on the Tailor Made. You can tell more's
going to the R&D which means it's going
to be more cost and things like but then
more goes into the marketing doesn't it
as well. I'm going towards the Tacomao
because oh my lord look where the Costco
is. So the Tacoma is here but I would
just missed the center line by like 8
feet something like that. Costco must
have actually either took a kick or
caught a branch because it's a long way
back there in um in the rough.
The big thing here is if one of them's
really easier to keep in play. No driver
is easy. No golf club is nothing is easy
to keep in play when it comes to a golf
ball is it? But if one of them is that
little bit easier like we get a decent
shaft in both these. I got a Ventus in
the Tacoma and we've got a what we got
in the Costco. I'm sure it's a boom even
flow riptide. So it's not a bad shaft. I
mean it's not a great shaft. It's a
little bit na but it's not too bad. I
actually put an upcharge shaft in the
Costco. It didn't make a huge
difference. So I'm babbling on now.
Let's continue. We'll talk numbers as
this video goes on and we'll see which
is the best budget driver of the year in
terms of these two lightweight,
heavyweight, med featherweights.
Featherweights.
Okay, it definitely hit a tree. It
definitely hit a tree. Wow.
All's forgiven for that. Okay, so
nudging a couple of drivers down a tight
par4 is all good and well, but what
about when you need that hurt my head?
When you need distance, you want to hit
this ball as far as physically possible.
We're on a par five. Want to try and
tack it into can you do that with a
budget driver? Now, I've tested drivers
like this enough to know yes, you can.
But which one's going to be best in this
category? Should you spend that little
bit more on the Tacomao where you can
see you can change one of those three
weights or even all of those three
weights to suit your eye the best? You
can also change the loft on both these
drivers. That's what I think so special
about them both. They're both fantastic
options with that element of
adjustability. There's no adjustability
with the weighted on the Kirkland, but I
mean, come on. Like realistically, how
much can we expect for this price
bracket? I believe you can buy both of
these drivers for the price of a Ping or
a Tailor Made or a a Titist or even a
Callaway. Not you'd want them both, but
we'll go with it, right? Uh we'll go to
Kono first because we hit Kirkland first
last time. That lovely little low spin
draw would be a nice one down here into
the wind a little bit. And this is again
where more budget orientated drivers
could struggle just because of that kind
of wind. If we get a 3,3,200
spin rate here, it's really going to rob
us of some distance. So, we need to try
and keep this ball flight down if we
can. I love the shape of the Tacoma.
It's like a a really weird elongated
heel, which I do like the look of.
Oh, it's just left. It's going to be
okay. It's going to be in the rough. And
I think I'd rather hit that ball fly on
this hole and and not lose kind of tw 20
or 30 yards potentially because if I was
to hit like a really nice straight
looking shot, but it'd be a bit healy, a
bit low out the face, it balloon up, I'm
going to be like miles behind and I
don't mind being in the in the slight
rough. So So it's two powerful ball
flights so far with the Tacomao.
Totally different look on the top of the
Costco. A more shiny finish.
Oh, James.
It's a very similar shot to the first
one I hit, and that was high toe. So,
that's actually rescued it quite a lot
from being even shorter. That's a shame.
But, it kind of is what it is. I tried
to put the same swing on there. Feel
like they were quite similar. Just
misruck. In fact, you can see the strike
locations are pretty similar. High toe,
high toe. Maybe just left the face open
just a touch on that Costco. Are those
weights on the Tacomao helping me there
by keeping that face more stable
throughout impact maybe than the
Kirkland with its inertia generating
whatever we can call that we can't look
you like quite similar on the bottom
aren't they with those little kind of
kind of slides down the bottom to help
generate inertia I think I don't I can
say that I'm not going to say that we'll
leave it in but I don't mean it it's
allegedly
okay so we have the Tacomao here in the
lefthand roof down the par five. We
blocked out a little bit, but we're down
there okay for distance. Now the
Kirkland is bang on line with that
bunker there. You can just see the top
of the ball. So it's further to it's not
done too bad for distance actually. I
did feel like the Tacoma was a much more
penetrating ball flight. We're probably
talking 10 maybe maybe 15 yards maximum
there. Let's go and see exactly where
that is and I can show you in relation
but realistically when we talk numbers
for this you might start to see a little
bit of a similarity thing. So you can
see as we drive across and we veer
backwards
that is where the Costco finish. So yeah
probably more like more like 15 yards
compared to where we were just down over
there near that tree.
Much better line in though from here if
we're being picky. So, when I had both
these drivers in the studio, it was
really interesting because I hit some
really, really good shots and to be
honest, some pretty average drives as
well. Now, when it came to the Tacomao
driver, I felt like when I got it a
little bit high to I could drag that
spin rate down, I could get it in the
kind of 2,000s and get it going around
that kind of 270 mark that I do like. I
even got a couple over 280 yards. Now,
forgiveness wise with the Tacoma, it is
good, but I don't think it's quite as
forgiving as some of the more expensive
drivers. I would love to see a low spin
element of this head. And then when we
moved into the Costco head, you'll see
that it's a very, very similar story. If
I can drag that spin rate down, get it
to around 2,000, it's going to pitch
around that 270 yards mark and again
release up. I did hit more waywood shots
with the Kirkland than I did the Tacoma.
I do feel like that three-way waiting
with the Tacoma can potentially
stabilize it a little bit for that left
to right dispersion. So, two very
enjoyable drivers, two very, very
affordable drivers. Should we see some
low spin ones come in next year? Maybe.
Okay, so this next hole is a totally
different beast. We are uphill and
downwind. Let's see if we can launch
these two drivers up into orbit. I mean,
there's so many to go at, isn't he? Look
at all those. We got the vice in there.
We've got Titus Tailor Made. We've got
Wilson PXG. So many drivers you can get.
The big question probably is, could you
just get better secondhand? Maybe like
for for the price 319.
Are you getting what are you getting?
319. Comment below. Would you go
secondhand or would you go one of these
two? Okay, we'll go Costco first this
time primarily because it's alphabetical
order. That's literally the levels that
we're at because I could have like got a
some kind of magic wheel or something,
but that's not really me. We're going to
hit these as hard as we physically can.
We've spoke some numbers and we've seen
kind of where maybe the market is, but
this all comes down to this. Should you
go Costco or should you go to Como?
I hit that so hard and it's just gone
right again.
Ah,
like the strike is good. The strike
whenever I review the Costco, I want it
here. I want it in high toe, but today
it just doesn't want to square up at
all. Yes, that's going to be me and I
like it doesn't turn into a bad driver
overnight. I'm well aware of that, but I
do feel like try to really go at it or
try to do anything with it at the
moment. It just wants to go right. Three
right shots in a row now. Tacomao lamp
grip ventus shaft fairway and you
probably win it.
That's the same. They're both exactly
the same. Both exactly the same strike.
A really good comparison here because
they're two bang average golf swings.
I'm not going to say that people who are
buying these drives are going to be bang
average golfers like me obviously like I
am. But if you want to save money, which
one's the most forgiving? Because
they're identical shots. I must admit on
the basis of this test I think I'd be
happy with either of these drivers and
the price they've cost because the
quality of golf swing I'm putting on
these clubs some of it's been okay if
it's some good shots and it was the same
inside like I'm not swinging well at the
moment and that's feels like I've been
saying that all year to be honest but we
can all resonate with that I think
that's just golf isn't it so I would not
like to think I've spent 650700 on a
driver to hit it like I've just hit
those ones there which one is going to
be the more forgiving one.
I think
I don't know actually. They were both as
bad as each other though. Long as we're
past these bushes, then we're okay. The
Tacomao here
and the Costco there, which may well
have caught them in fairness. But guys,
if you enjoyed that, please hit that
subscribe button below. Lots more
content to come and throw a like on this
video. But I'll see you all at the same
time tomorrow. Goodbye.