I think it's fair to say 2025 has been a
stellar year for driver releases. And
today we're going to talk through my top
five forgiving drivers for mid to high
handicap golfers of 2025. But before we
do that, these all cost quite a lot of
money. Like a heck of a lot of money.
So, um, let's talk through just a couple
of slightly cheaper driver options
before we jump into the big
heavyweights. And we all know just
potentially what those drivers could be.
But guys, before we get into this video,
please do hit that subscribe button,
throw a like on this video if you do
enjoy this style of content. And as
well, let me know in the comments, which
driver are you using, and which driver
do you think is the best forgiving
driver of 2025. So, I wanted to give an
honorary mention to these three drivers
here. We'll kick things off with the
Tacoma Ignis D1 driver. This driver
would set you back Â£319.
It's got a carbon crown. It's got a
movable weight system. It's got an
adjustable neck. lots and lots of
technology in here. And when you stack
it up to some of the bigger names, some
of the more forgiving drivers, it may
not reach those ball speed heights. It
may not be able to get that spin dropped
quite as much. But for that price
element, I have to say the DTC market
has been a fantastic place for so many
golfers and this could be a real eye
opening option for so many people around
the world. So the Tacomao driver
is definitely one of the more unsung
heroes in this factor. Guys, get in the
comments below. Have you ever tried this
driver? You've probably seen the Ions,
heard of the Irions. You may not have
even known they did a driver, but I
certainly think the Tacoma is one worth
considering if you're going for more of
a budget option for your forgiving
driver. Another more budget friendly
option I'd like to draw your attention
to is the 11 NH1 driver. So, the guys at
11 are well known for their full hybrid
sets that can replace irons. I think
they're a fantastic idea. I think they
do a great job. They're affordable and
they are based here in the UK as well,
which is a fantastic win for the UK
industry. But you see the 11 driver, it
doesn't have lots of movable weights in
here. It does just have that loan weight
at the back, but you can order it with
hot melt in the toe or the heel if you
know where you'd like that discretionary
weight going. So from there, you can
really have this fitted in your specs.
You get adjustable neck on there as
well. So plenty to go. And I think this
is one of the best head styles I've
seen. very reminiscent of the old
Bridgestone drivers which we never
really saw much of but I think the we
can all say that they're a fantastic
looking driver. So the 11NH1 another
notable mention and for forgiveness you
can get this in whatever specs you want
with a KBS shaft
and again you can see a really nice
penetrating shot down that right hand
side. So a great feeling driver, a great
performing driver for the price. again,
are you going to reach those really mega
high ball speeds of the fantastically
expensive drivers? Maybe not. But for
the price, I really don't think it's a
bad option in 2025. And finally, before
we get into my top five forgiving
drivers with no budget of 2025, I want
to give another notable mention to the
Vice VGD01
driver. Because again, this is a DTOC
brand. We all thought Vice only made
golf balls. I actually went to Munich
for a fitting with this driver and I
found it a fantastic driver. We got some
really good ball speed with it and you
can order it online on your specs. I
think that's one of the best crowns I've
ever seen in golf and this is their
forgiving version. So, it's a little bit
more budget. If you do go for the low
spin model, it's a bit more expensive
and not quite as forgiving, but I think
this is a really nice middle ground for
the guys at Vice. We've got that lovely
pearlescent carbon crown. We've got a
back waiting to shove MOI back in the
head. And feeling soundwise, like I've
seen really good golfers hit this
driver.
And I've seen really good drives with it
as well. That's the best driver I've hit
fit so far in this hole. That's a lovely
penetrating shot straight down the
middle of the hole. And all those
drivers for me, the three notable
mentions right at the start of this
video. Hopefully you've enjoyed that
little segment. For me, I don't think
golf should be so expensive. I don't
think it needs to be so expensive. So
hopefully brands like this keep doing
what they're doing and disrupt that
rather expensive driver market we're
about to delve into. Just a quick side
note, there's also there's also this
like I mean I've got to draw the line
somewhere, but you can get it. You can
get it if you want it. Okay, so let's
get into the bones of this video. My top
five forgiving drivers of 2025.
I have five of the best drivers lined up
behind the camera ready waiting to go.
And we don't have Bobby because Bobb's
still on holiday. So imagine that. But
in at number five, I have the Callaway
Elite driver. I'm a huge fan of this
Callaway Elite driver. I think it's been
a fantastic driver over the last couple
of years with the Paradigm and the
Paradigm AI smoke. You can see here we
have that lovely kind of triacle carbon
weave on top. We have the AI 10 times
smart face. And we also have a nice
three-way adjustable weighting system in
this Callaway Elite driver. So I think
Callaway have really nailed it. They
brought back those lovely epic colors
and epic flash colors which Callaway are
so well known for. I do think that some
kind of frontto back movable weight
system even in the core head would have
been fantastic but they have saved that
for the triple diamond model. The triple
diamond is a great driver. One of the
best low spin drivers you will see. I
was a more of a fan of the color scheme
of the Paradigm. That's obviously very
subjective but for me I really enjoyed
the Paradigm and of course the AI smoke.
But really nice driver to look down at.
I do think Callaway are going to have
some really big moves next year
actually. But it just looks like a
really forgiving drive. Really elongated
head style down at the back. And when
you hit it, it really does
sound and feel like a nice club. You can
see that's a nice low penetrating
strike. I've actually hit that a little
bit low on the face, but that's bounding
down there. That's gone quite a long way
actually compared to some of the shots
we've already hit today. And even with a
strike like that, that's why the
Callaway Paradigm. I was going to say
Paradigm. That's why the Callaway Elite
driver is in my top five forgiving
drivers of 2025. And that is in at
number five. But what's number four, you
ask. Well, you may have forgotten about
this one actually. Hopefully not. Okay,
so in at number four of my top five
forgiving drivers for mid to high
handicap golfers, it's the PXG0311
Black Ops driver. Now, I actually have a
bit of affinity with this driver because
we got Brett into this driver in our mid
to low handicap series. He started off
as a kind of high teen handicap. He's
now down at six or seven, I believe. So,
we're going to head out to PXG and
trying to get him fitted for some things
for next year as well. That series is
going to continue. But this is a driver.
Looks fantastic. Sounds amazing. I can't
wait to hit this and share those
acoustic feedbacks with you. We have
that lovely carbon crown. We have a
lovely carbon sole as well. And we have
that three-way adjustable weighting
system as well. So PXG are some of the
best club fitters in the world. And you
can really get this driver dialed in. Of
course, we have an adjustable neck as
well. That probably goes without saying,
but it is a really fantastic option. The
fact we've got this little kind of
carbon sole element here as well means
they can put all that discretionary
weight wherever they want it. And you
can see by having the heavy weight back
here on what looks almost like a bit of
an inertia generator can really really
help you with those nice long straight
drives. So for me, I did like the tour
version was a low spin version called
the tour. That kind of little kind of
snout at the back there is a bit more
raised, a little bit more prominent, and
you can again make that more low spin or
more forgiving if you do want to. So
some really, really nice options there
for anybody who does like the idea of a
PXG driver. I know as a brand it's not
for everyone. I absolutely love it. I
think they're smashing it out of the
park. I love that they've dropped the
prices and got a little bit of a budget
set as well. So, for me, the PXG0311
Black Ops is certainly one to think
about. I even love the kind of ring
around the back edge of it. It shows how
much real estate we've got. Shows that
it's a nice forgiving driver. And when
I've tested this, I haven't actually
seen that we've got too much too much
spin, too much forgiveness. I can still
hit
really nice penetrating shots just like
that one. So, a nice fade down the right
hand side again there. Again, a slightly
low face strike. So, a really good day
for me to be testing these forgiving
drivers. But the PXG is number four of
my top five for 2025.
Okay, so let's take a moment to have a
slight break and think what could be in
my top three forgiving drivers for mid
high handicap golfers of 2025.
We've had the PXG, we've had the
Callaway, we've had the notable uh more
budget options, which I hope that's not
annoyed any of you guys, but for me, I
think it's nice just to show what is out
there for the DTC brands as well as
these fant let's to be fair, these
drivers do perform incredibly well,
perform marginally better. I think it's
fair to say like if you think about
anyway, what do you think is in my top
three? What would be in your top three?
Please comment below and let me know
what would your top three drives be?
What driver would be your number one?
Because for me in at number three, I've
got these all muddled up here, is the
Titalist
GT2
driver. Now, this is a phenomenal
driver. The reason why it's fairly low
down because usually Titist have a
really good kind of spot high up in my
forgiving driver rankings is that to be
honest, I've just been and picked all
those balls up. So, we've got more balls
than we know what to do with now. But
for me, I do feel like the TS range was
so strong. The TS range was phenomenal.
TS2, TS3, TS4, and it sounded and felt
amazing. The GT range for me just
doesn't sound quite as nice. That sounds
ridiculous. It sounds silly, I know, but
for me, it just I don't know.
Performance-wise, however, this performs
ridiculously well for anybody who wants
a forgiving driver. It's so easy to
launch. Generally, you do find that it
kind of straightens your ball flight up
just a little bit. It's not going to be
um a total savior. So, it's not going to
be a total game changer, but it is just
going to help you a little bit hit more
fairways. You can see here actually on
the face of mine. Um, don't use a white
teeg if you are going to use this driver
because that is impossible to get out.
Probably not impossible. If I just
cleaned it properly with some white
spirit, it might come off. But a lovely
clean looking driver. It does look like
a tireless driver of old. If you are a
more um traditional golfer, this could
well be the driver for you. There's no
big carbon top. There's no inertia
generator. There's no kind of real big
frills, just good oldfashioned tech
within a driver. Looking down at the
ball, it looks so good. It really does
look so good. I know so many golfers
who've got these in the bag and they
perform really, really well for them.
And you can see that I've actually hit
that one high toe again, believe it or
not, today. But that is up the right
hand side of the fairway just pandering
down to the left. And again, it's done
what I want it to do. I've cut across it
out the toe. We're still going to
generate good ball speed. It's going to
be a nice low spin rate. It's going to
go pretty long for me. So, that's the
Titus GT2 and that's in at number three
of my top five forgiving drivers. Okay,
so it's time for number two. This was
very nearly not only the best forgiving
driver of 2025. For me, it was very
nearly the best driver of 2025 is of
course the Tailor Made Qi35 driver. This
is the core head. Now, a lot of people
may be saying, "James, have you lost the
plot? There's a Tailor- made Qi35 Max
head that's got more inertia, that's
more forgiving, that could potentially
be higher up on your list of top five
forgiving drivers." Well, maybe that's
number one to start with, but also I
think this is just a better all round
driver. I think for forgiveness, you get
almost everything you get out of the
Max, but you get the movable weight
system here as well. So, you can have
that 13 gram weight in the front. You
could move it all the way to the back if
you want to on this inertia generator.
that's going to make it a lot more
forgiving. But Tailor Made showed me a
graph at the start of the year. It was
actually at the end of last year. It was
this time last year, which is
frightening to think, but it showed us a
graph of CG locations and how it can be
so forgiving, but how it can also be low
spin and it can basically be the best of
both worlds. It can be like the
amphibious flying car. Who doesn't want
an amphibious flying car? I said that in
my review right at the start of the
year. But having that lovely Infinity
carbon crown, having that carbon sole,
allowing them to put that discretionary
weight wherever they want it in this
head and combining it with a speed
pocket and of course that lovely carbon
face, I think it really does go to show
that it's a fantastic driver for
everybody. And one thing I do miss
actually because doing all this online
stuff that we get to do, I'm so
grateful, but we don't see as many
people. We don't give as many lessons.
We don't club fit anymore. But whenever
I see somebody with this, I was having a
conversation with a friend literally
just this morning and he said, "Oh, I
played with someone yesterday and he had
the Qi35 driver and he was just hitting
it miles and I couldn't get near him."
And the amount of times I hear that
story with this driver really does speak
volumes as to just how good this
driver's been. Personally, I'm not a
huge fan of the name nor the color.
That's just my personal preference. I
preferred the Qi 10 because it had like
a proper solid 10k inertia meaning. And
I know we have the three pillars and the
five heads and things like that for the
35, but you can't help but feel tailor
made almost clutching at that. That's
all. Neither
nevertheless, but it's still a fantastic
performing driver. And if I could get it
in that kind of black head, just fully
stealththed out, that would be the
driver for me. I think that looks
absolutely incredible. I don't think
they even charge that much for it
either. So, if if I was in the market
for one, I'd certainly go and get fitted
and then I'd be thinking about trying to
get that either stealth out head or just
a different colored head depending which
one you want. But for me, the Qi35 core
model is a great looking, great feeling
and great performing driver
and could be a great option for golfers
in 2025. That's in at number two. Now,
what's number one, you ask? I can hear
you all typing on the do people do
keyboards anymore? probably typing on
the phones. What is it, James? Guys,
comment below if you're still here.
Thank you. What do you think it is?
Because there's a couple of brands that
it could be, isn't there? A couple.
Okay, so my number one forgiving driver
for mid to high handicap golfers of 2025
is a bit of a unicorn, and it is the
Ping G440 Max driver. Now, we all know
that Ping with their G430 Max 10K driver
absolutely smashed it out the park when
it comes to forgiveness. I feel like
they moved that on an extra level with
this G440 driver and this Max head just
looks phenomenal. I've got no idea how
they've managed to get as much
forgiveness in this head as they have.
I've been gaming the LS model for the
last couple of months and really, really
like it, but I'll be totally honest. I
think if you switched out the LS head,
put this head in, not only would I'd not
really be able to tell the difference
visually or audio. Audioy. Anyway, I
think I'd actually hit better T-shots
because this just gives you that extra
bit of technology, extra little bit of
control and of course forgiveness, which
is what this video is all about. So, we
have a lovely carbon crown on here. It's
like a kind of carbon wrap. And we have
the turbul. I can leave the turbuls.
Turbulencers really aren't for me.
That's really not my kind of thing. But
the carbon fly wrap does kind of mold
over into the toe and the heel there. So
we don't have a carbon sole, but we do
have like that carbon wrap that comes
over the toe and the heel that allows
Ping to put that discretionary weight
wherever they want it to make it more
forgiving. We've said that already in
this video for numerous drivers. And we
have the spin consistency of that heat
treated forge face. I will never ever
accept that spin consistency is a word.
Just putting it out there. But no
driver's perfect. We have the movable
weight system here. We can put it in
draw, put it in fade. Obviously, I've
just got it in the neutral setting. I do
quite like that. A lovely big heavy
weight right at the rear of this driver.
Enhancing CG and uh no, enhancing CG,
enhancing MOI and bringing CG back in
the head. The big story about it is how
good it is to hit because I think this
is the best feeling, best sounding, and
best looking driver even with the
turbulas, which is like ridiculous.
That's like I would think of something
really funny to say, but I'd probably
get cancelled, so I'm not going to say
it. But for me, the Ping G440 driver is
a phenomenal driver and easily one of,
if not the best of 2025.
And that drive just goes to show exactly
why. Guys, if you have enjoyed this
video, please do hit that subscribe
button below. Lots more videos to come,
so make sure you do stay tuned. But that
is my top five. And of course, a nice
honorary mention for some of the more
budgetoriented drivers. Apart from that,
I'll see you all the same time tomorrow.
Goodbye.