If you want a more powerful and
consistent golf swing, you need to get
into the slot. The slot is the key
position where you can swing the club
straight and reliable toward the ball.
The problem usually starts right at the
very first part of the down swing. If
your hands follow the red arrow instead
of the green one, it's likely because
you are applying too much horizontal
force with your right hand on the club.
Make sure your trail side stays passive
at first and moves downward. And only
when your hands are around the level of
your right thigh should that force begin
to move forward. This helps prevent the
classic over the top move which kills
both consistency and direction. One
drill that helps is consciously
exaggerating the downward movement of
your arms to get a feel for it. Do this
one to three times before every shot.
Then hit the ball. This helps you to
learn lower your hands in the first part
of your down swing. This technique is
recommended by Bryson Dshambo and Justin
Rose. The key here is exeagoration. If
you are unsure how to make this
transition or need additional guidance,
consider signing up for our private golf
swing coaching where LPJ tour player
Zandraal and I will personally help you
improve your golf game. If you enjoyed
this video, please give it a thumbs up,
subscribe to the channel, and let me
know how the drill works for you.